SPECIAL PUBLIC DELEGATION BOARD
MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, April 15, 2026 at 5:06pm
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) met in room 114 (the Boardroom), VSB
Education Centre, 1580 West Broadway, Vancouver B.C. on Wednesday, April 15, 2026 at 5:06pm. The
meeting was live-streamed.
Trustees Present: Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Janet Fraser, Vice-Chairperson
Lois Chan-Pedley
Preeti Faridkot
Suzie Mah
Jennifer Reddy
Trustees Absent with Regrets: Alfred Chien
Christopher Richardson
Joshua Zhang
S enior Team Members Present: Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
Helen McGregor, Superintendent
L orelei Russell, Executive Director, Finance
Also Present: Patricia MacNeil, Director of Communication
Cornelia Haack, Executive Assistant (Recorder)
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1. Indigenous Land Acknowledgement
The Chairperson called the meeting to order. She acknowledged that with deep gratitude and
respect, we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) & səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-
Waututh Nation).
1.2. Opening Remarks
The Chairperson informed everyone the meeting was being live-streamed, and the audio and visual
recording would be available to the public for viewing after the meeting. The footage of the meeting
could be viewed inside and outside of Canada. She reviewed meeting decorum for respectful
behavior.
2. DELEGATIONS RE: DRAFT 2026-2027 FINANCIAL PLAN
The Chairperson reviewed the Procedure for Delegations to the Board, noting that the information was
also detailed on the overhead presentation slide
The following delegates presented their views on the Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan. Two presentations
were provided and retained for the Board’s records.
Public Delegation Board Page 1 of 2
Meeting Minutes2.1 Delegations re: Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan
1. Joanne Carman (On Teams)
2. Tomomi Suzuki (In Person)
3. Audrey Liang, Point Grey Secondary Debate Club (In Person)
4. Jenna Otto-Wray, Friends of School Libraries (In Person)
5. Nate Stanley, COPE Vancouver (In Person)
At the beginning of his presentation, the delegate noted that co-presenter Sam Smart was not
able to attend.
After the presentation of delegate Nate Stanley, the Chairperson noted that delegate, Sherry Breshears,
was not available to present.
6. Sherry Breshears (Not Available to present)
7. Linda Kemp (On Teams)
8. Mae Price (On Teams)
During her presentation, the delegate expressed support for a motion.
The Chair clarified that trustees had not yet received the agenda package for the Special Board
Meeting scheduled for April 20, 2026, and that details of any motions would be provided with
the agenda package on April 17, 2026.
The delegate indicated her understanding that a motion related to after-school care had been
submitted by Trustee Reddy. Trustee Reddy asked the delegate a question then confirmed that
she had submitted a motion regarding the budget.
9. Liz McDowell (On Teams)
10. Rachel Tetrault (On Teams)
11. Christopher Lee (The delegate did not attend the meeting)
12. Justin Sekiguchi (On Teams)
13. Dan Ward
14. Ela Gunad
15. Harper Keenan
The remaining delegates on the agenda referred to the motion that would be included in the April 20, 2026
Special Board meeting agenda package. Trustees asked questions and the delegations provided
responses pertaining to their presentations.
In response to a trustee’s request, the Board Chair provided guidance on follow-up email submissions from
Delegates.
3. ADJOURNMENT
Trustees agreed to adjourn by consensus.
The meeting adjourned at 6:20 pm.
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Public Delegation Board Page 2 of 2
Meeting Minutes