PARK BOARD MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
⎯ June 1, 2026 ⎯
The following information is intended to provide a brief overview of the Board’s governance work
at the Committee and Board meetings. The full agenda, meeting materials, video clips and official
minutes can be found on the Park Board website.
STAFF REPORTS / PRESENTATIONS
Burrard View Hospice - Vancouver Coastal Health - Lease Agreement Renewal
The Board approved the report, which authorizes staff to enter into a lease agreement with
Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) for the fieldhouse at Burrard View Park for an initial term of ten
years, with two additional five year renewals, for a total contract term of twenty years effective
September 1, 2026. In exchange for the ability to provide hospice care from the site, VCH will
initially invest approximately $600,000 in much needed capital maintenance and commit to annual
maintenance and repairs at a minimum of $55,000/year for the entire building.
Designated Smoking Area at Select Special Events in Summer 2026 - Pilot Program
The Board approved the report, which allows for designated smoking areas at select special
events on a pilot program basis. While the Park Board’s no smoking policy and public compliance-
based approach has proven effective amongst general park users, illicit smoking at large events
continues to be an issue of concern. In order to reduce illicit smoking at their events, reduce public
safety risks and enhance park protection, two event producers – Trixstar Productions and Feaster
Festivals & Events – will be allowed an exemption to the Park Board’s Smoking Regulation Bylaw
in order to offer designated smoking areas (tobacco and vaping products only), on a pilot program
basis, for three events in Summer 2026. Staff will report back to the Board before designated
smoking areas are introduced at these of other events in the future.
Indigenous Community-led Cultural Events – Report Back
The Board approved the report, which allocates $50,000 from the Corporate Sponsorship Fund
for 2026 to support staff and services for Indigenous community-leg cultural events and initiatives
in parks. The Corporate Sponsorship Fund allocation enables staff to bring funding and
operational, technical, and production support to the organization of Indigenous-led cultural
events and ceremonies in parks. These events range from small community gatherings to major
festivals, and contribute to vibrancy in parks and are important to both the relationship building
that is foundational to the Park Board’s Reconciliation Missions and Mandate and to the
commitments to Reconciliation articulated in VanPlay.
CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Digby highlighted recent events attended by commissioners:
- Beaconsfield Park Wetland Tour – Commissioner Christensen attended the opening and
tour of the new Beaconsfield Park wetland.
- Park Visits – Comr. Christensen – Commissioner Christensen visited Cedar Cottage Park
and Tatlow Park Playground.
- Arts & Health Gala – Commissioner Christensen and Commissioner Haer attended the
20th annual Arts & Health Gala Showcase at Roundhouse Community Centre
- Park Visits – Comr. Jensen – Commissioner Jensen visited Riley Park Farmers Market,
False Creek Community Centre, Oakridge Shopping Centre, and Nat Bailey Stadium
Page 1 of 3 2-Jun-26GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
The General Manager presented an overview of the GM’s report:
- Celebrating 10 Years of Reconciliation – The Park Board celebrated 10 years of
Reconciliation in 2026. In 2016, the Park Board adopted it’s 11 Reconciliation Strategies
as the foundation of our Reconciliation work and reaffirms its commitment to those
strategies, and the implementation of the City’s UNDRIP Action Plan endorsed by Park
Board in 2024.
- National Indigenous History Month – National Indigenous History Month is celebrated
every June across Canada. Through the month, there are many opportunities across the
parks and recreation system to celebrate the occasion. The Park Board invites everyone
to take time to attend these community events and programs, support Indigenous artists
and cultural practitioners, and learn more about Indigenous peoples in Canada and
Vancouver. More information on related events and activities can be found online.
- Hadden Park Floating Sauna Update - A referral report on the rezoning of four custody
care and maintenance parcels in Hadden Park will be brought to City Council on June 2,
2026. Should Council approve the report at that time, the item will be referred to public
hearing at a future date, where Council will decide on the rezoning.
- Villages Planning Program - A referral report on the Villages Planning Program be brought
to City Council on June 2, 2026. The program focused on enabling Missing Middle housing
and strengthening 17 local commercial areas and will be a key part of delivering the
upcoming Vancouver Official Development Plan.
- Council Business (relating to or impacting parks & recreation)
- Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “Vision Zero Safe Mobility Plan”
- Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “Proposed Amendments to the
Election Bylaw”
- Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “2026 Cultural Grants (Projects,
Cultural Spaces, Capacity) and SRO Upgrading Grant”
- Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “Auditor General Committee
Recommendations Transmittal Report”
- Council to receive a report on June 3, 2026, titled “Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan
Implementation Grant Program Allocation 2026”
- Council to receive for a report on June 3, 2026, titled “City of Vancouver UNDRIP
Task Force Annual Report”
- Council to consider a motion on June 3, 2026, titled “Pride in Vancouver:
Strengthening and Celebrating the Vancouver Pride Festival”
- Council to consider a motion on June 3, 2026, titled “More than Zero: Integrity and
Accountability for Staff and Department Changes”
- Council to consider a motion on June 3, 2026 titled “Recognizing National
Accessibility Week as an Official City of Vancouver Observance,”
Page 2 of 3 2-Jun-26BOARD MOTIONS
Prohibition and Restriction of Motorized Personal Watercraft in Burrard Inlet
Commissioners discussed the formal policy position advocating for the prohibition or significant
restriction of high-speed recreational motorized personal watercraft within Burrard Inlet and
adjacent near-shore waters surround Vancouver parks and beaches. While the Commissioners
appreciated the intent of the recommendation, the motion was defeated.
Think Accessible Play: Advancing Vancouver’s Second Destination Inclusive Sensory and
All-Abilities Park with a Communication Board Pilot at Queen Elizabeth Park
The Board approved the motion with amendments, which directs staff to undertake planning and
feasibility work for the development of a destination sensory all-abilities park at Queen Elizabeth
Park. Staff were directed to consider inclusive play features including, but not limited to,
accessible play components, sensory-rich play experiences, quiet spaces, inclusive swings, and
communication boards designed to support non-verbal individuals, educators and multilingual
families. The Board will receive a report back via memo by Q1 2027 on timelines and preliminary
concept directions.
Think Free Swim: Carrying on Joe Fortes’ Legacy through Universal Access to Basic
Swimming Lessons and Expansion of Aquatic Infrastructure as Core Public Safety Policy
The Board approved the motion with amendments, which affirms the Board’s position that access
to introductory swimming lessons should be treated as a core public safety goal. The Board
directed staff to report back with cost, capacity, and service level options for a program providing
tree access to the first three level of swimming lessons (or equivalent beginning stages) for all
residents of Vancouver, with priority access for children aged 3 to 12. The report back will also
clearly indicate the amount of service reductions elsewhere in the Park Board system that may
be required with each option.
Beach Safety and Marine Protection
The Board approved the motion, which requests that Transport Canda, The Department of
Fisheries and Oceans, the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority, the Vancouver Police Department
Marine Unit, and other relevant agencies review opportunities to improve swimmer safety,
recreational marine safety, and marine wildlife protection adjacent to Vancouver beaches and
park waters. It also expresses the Board’s willingness to support the placement of marine safety
signage, maps, and whale awareness information at appropriate beaches, parks, seawalls, and
waterfront access points under Park Board jurisdiction.
NEXT MEETINGS
The next Committee and Board meetings are scheduled for July 13, 2026.
Page 3 of 3 2-Jun-26