Report Date: May 15, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Manager, Decolonization, Arts and Culture
SUBJECT: Indigenous Community-led Cultural Events – Report Back
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT the Vancouver Park Board receive the report on 3-year Corporate Sponsorship
Fund support for Indigenous community-led cultural events
B. THAT the Park Board approve $50,000 from the Corporate Sponsorship Fund for 2026
to support staff and services for Indigenous community-led cultural events and initiatives
in parks
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
In 2022 Park Board approved $150,000 from the Corporate Sponsorship Fund to support
emergent Indigenous community-led cultural ceremony and events in parks. Between 2022-2025,
Park Board supported 18 cultural events in parks led by the local Nations and Urban Indigenous
organisations.
The Corporate Sponsorship Fund allocation enabled staff to bring funding and operational,
technical, and production support to the organization of Indigenous-led cultural events and
ceremonies in parks. Staff have documented learnings and developed an ongoing plan to bring
sustainable support to Indigenous, community-led work through the Park Board’s system after
analyzing consistent staffing, infrastructure and financial needs.
The opportunity to do this work is robust, ongoing and contributes immensely to vibrancy in parks.
Staff are seeking Board approval for bridge funding for the remainder of 2026 of $50,000 to
continue to support this work.
BOARD AUTHORITY / PREVIOUS DECISIONS
− At its meeting of January 11, 2016, the Park Board adopted eleven reconciliation
strategies in response to the Calls to Action provided by the Truth and Reconciliation
of Commission. Park Board Reconciliation Strategies includethe direction to:
• Work with First Nations peoples and other civic bodies to identify, create, and
deliver appropriate and actionable staff training on Indigenous issues and
Reconciliation;
• Take a 360 degree approach to programming, including in the areas of culture,
health, public dialogue, physical activity, and sport in order to increase public
knowledge and awareness of reconciliation and to provide support to Indigenous
peoples including children, youth, Elders and families
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Indigenous Community-led Cultural Events Page 2
• Review event permitting and sports hosting opportunities to ensure that Indigenous
peoples' territorial protocols are respected and that, if appropriate to the scale of
the event, that local Indigenous communities are engaged;
− In April 2018, Park Board received a staff report titled Truth Telling: Indigenous
Perspectives on Working with Municipal Governments. The report was a result of a
series of consultations led by Park Board staff and Kamala Todd with Aboriginal
cultural leaders, artists, and knowledge holders from across Canada, as well as from
within the Musqueam, Squamish, and TsleilWaututh Nations. In this report, one of the
key messages delivered was that in Canada’s journey towards “Truth and
Reconciliation”, the critical step of truth-telling must come first. Truth-Telling:
Indigenous Perspectives on Working with Municipal Governments
− On April 16, 2018, the Board adopted the Reconciliation Mission, Vision, and Values
as a foundation for Reconciliation within the organization. The mission—to decolonize
the Park Board—is an ambitious one, and has reframed much of the ongoing regular
business of the Park Board, as well as internal staff cross-departmental relations.
− On October 19, 2020, the Park Board approved the VanPlay Framework, for
Vancouver’s Parks and Recreation Services Master Plan. The VanPlay Playbook
directs Park Board to “focus reconciliation efforts on decolonizing the Park Bard and
relationship building with the Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations”.
• G.6.1 Instill the Mission, Vision and Values of Park Board Reconciliation and
Decolonisation into the Park Board’s organisational culture of learning, respect and
truth telling.
• G.6.6 Ensure partnership agreements and consulting procurements reflect the
Truth and Reconciliation Commission's calls to action and Park Board's
Reconciliation and Decolonization values.
• G.8.4 Create funding mechanisms to support community arts and artists-in-
residence that are focused on relationships between Indigenous and non-
Indigenous peoples.
• G.8.5 Provide clear decision-making guidance for cultural development,
decolonisation, expression in parks, prioritisation of intangible cultural heritage and
promotion of cultural redress
• F.2.2 Develop a robust culture of welcome, inclusion, anti-oppression, and truth
and reconciliation within the Park Board.
− $150,000 Corporate Sponsorship Fund for Indigenous-led Community Events (2022)
On July 18, 2022 Park Board approved a contribution of $150,000 from the Corporate
Sponsorship Fund to support the delivery of emergent cultural events led by
Indigenous Organizations and Community for 3 years.
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Between 2022 and 2025, Park Board supported 18 cultural events in Parks that were led by the
local Nations and Urban Indigenous organizations with a financial investment of $150K resourcing
Park Board staff and event support. Park Board staff from Arts, Reconciliation and Culture (ARC),
Recreation, Urban Forestry, Operations and Filming and Special Events (FASE) supported a
range of Indigenous cultural practices focused on land-based healing, ceremony, celebration,
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Indigenous Community-led Cultural Events Page 3
community gathering and cultural sharing. Examples of community-led events that Park Board
supported in 2022 – 2025 include:
May 2022 Squamish Mask Ceremony at Xway Xway
April 2023-ongoing MMIMB2S (Murdered and Missing Indigenous Men, Boys and 2 Spirit
individuals Memorial March & Canoe Launch
July 2023 Squamish Nation Return to Sen̓ áḵw Celebration
Aug 2023 & 2024 Circles Indigenous Music Festival
June 2024 Indigenous People’s Day Movie Night in Stanley Park
July 2024-ongoing Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-wututh Community Days in
sθәqәlxenәm ts'exwts'áxwi7 Park
Sept 2025 Tsleil-Waututh Nation Community Day at Xway Xway
Sept 2025 Kilala Lelum Dream Canoe Launch, Truth and Reconciliation Day
The events ranged from small community gatherings to major festivals. Funding allocation broke
down into 6 broad categories with additional in-kind staff support beyond the Corporate
Sponsorship Fund resourcing.
From 2022 through 2025, costs included:
Site Operating Supplies $ 60,750
and Equipment
Traffic Control $ 5,250
Catering $ 20,075
VPD/Security $ 22,300
Staff Hours $ 39,225
Permits $ 2,400
Total $150,000
Additional in-kind staff support: $20,000
Through the Corporate Sponsorship Fund allocation, Park Board staff provided financial support
for aspects of this work when the requirements of our system exceeded the capacity of the event
organizers. This included funding for permits, risk management, policing costs, traffic
management and events operating supplies and equipment. Each project was unique and
requirements were determined on a case-by-case basis. Staff focused on “going the extra mile”
to enable safe, well-resourced Indigenous-led events to happen in parks without placing an
additional burden of work on the local Nations and Indigenous community in order for them to
host gatherings on land now stewarded by Park Board. These factors were outlined in the pilot
proposal and have remained consistent.
Staff roles and responsibilities included developing partnerships and facilitating relationship
building between local Nations staff teams and Indigenous community groups and Park Board
staff teams/members, as well as third party contractors connected to Park Board. Staff provided
internal operational, technical and facilitation support to reduce barriers to cultural work on the
land. Organizational capacity for the Nations and other groups is often stretched, so timelines for
this work were sometimes short.
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Indigenous Community-led Cultural Events Page 4
DISCUSSION
Developing the Park Board’s ability to enable Indigenous community-led work is an organizational
priority. Staff have developed a sustainable approach for ‘flexible consistency,’ remaining
responsive to the needs of unique events and projects. Our experience with this work has shown
that relationships and capacity evolve over time as Park Board support enables capacity building
for Indigenous organisations and groups.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
This complex work is not currently funded through any Park Board service group. While the size
and number of event requests fluctuate annually, analysis of the event cycle over three years
predicts that an investment of $50,000 annually would support an event cycle similar to what we
experienced from 2022 to 2025. To complete the work for 2026, a withdrawal from the Corporate
Sponsorship Fund would ensure service continuity until the 2027 operating budget is determined.
The Park Board’s policy on the approved use of the Corporate Sponsorship Fund (CSF) was
developed in 1998 and includes the following use criteria:
a. To fund one-time expenditures to a limit of $50,000 that will support revenue-generating
activities and the money repaid into the Corporate Sponsorship Account from the
increased revenues within a period of three years.
b. To fund initiatives with one-time expenditures to a limit of $50,000 that will result in
improved efficiencies.
c. To fund one-time expenditures over and above the existing funding levels in the operating
budget which are beneficial to the overall Parks and Recreation system.
The recommendation within this report aligns with Criteria C. All contributions from the CSF
require Board approval.
While this program has received funding once from the CSF, given the importance of this ongoing
work to our Reconciliation Mandate and the ongoing work growing positive relationships with the
local Nations and Urban Indigenous Community, staff is asking for the Board to approve CSF
bridge funding for 2026.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
This work has provided invaluable opportunities for staff education and increased understanding
of Indigenous cultural practice and the work of supporting Reconciliation in our system, in
community and on the land. We are grateful to the local Nations and to Indigenous artists, cultural
practitioners, organizers and communities for their patience and generosity as we learn how to
best support their work.
As discussed in the pilot proposal for this work, Park Board staff are challenged to bring a
flexibility, humanity, and collaboration to addressing the requirements and restrictions of working
in our system without engaging in practices that cause harm to Indigenous communities and
organizations. Staff engage with the responsibility of a complex burden of work to support
communities rather than placing that burden of work on Indigenous community in order for them
to work with us.
This work exemplifies interdepartmental staff collaboration, involving nearly every team in our
system: Arts, Reconciliation and Culture; Recreation; Operations and Trades; Special Events and
Filming; and Park Planning & Development all work together to enable Indigenous community-
led events.
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Indigenous Community-led Cultural Events Page 5
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
Arts, Reconciliation and Culture staff will continue to play a leadership and support role in this
cross-departmental work with the support of consistent funding.
Park Board has the increasing opportunity to support Indigenous community-led projects, events
and ceremonies in parks. This work is important to both the relationship building that is
foundational to our Reconciliation Mission and Mandate and our commitments to Reconciliation
articulated in VanPlay.
Park Board staff are seeking Board approval for bridge funding of $50,000 from the Corporate
Sponsorship Fund for 2026 to support Staff and Services for Indigenous Community-led cultural
events and initiatives in Parks until a consistent operational funding model fund can be integrated
into the annual operational budget to support this work with secure funding and appropriate staff
resourcing moving forward in 2027.
Park Board staff have carefully considered the various aspects of this request and recommend
that the Board approve this application as outlined above. Three years of facilitation and
documentation have taught us that Indigenous Communities and organizations are ready to bring
ceremony, events and projects to parks and often, a small amount of funding and staff support
can be the deciding factor enabling the work to go forward. Relationships of trust have been
enabled over the last three years through this work and staff support risk of harm to community,
relationships and reputation should the work not continue. Finally, this small investment of funds
will bring huge benefit to increasing vibrancy in parks. ARC is committed to furthering this work
and to reporting annually to the Board on its progress.
* * * * *
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026