Park Board General Manager’s Report
June 1, 2026
The following report is intended to provide an overview and update on recent and upcoming activities within
the Park Board.
Celebrating 10 Years of Reconciliation
The Park Board is celebrating 10 years of Reconciliation in 2026. In 2016, the Park Board adopted
our 11 Reconciliation Strategies as the foundation of our Reconciliation work. While this work is
led by the Arts, Reconciliation and Culture department, the implementation depends on
participation from staff across the organization. We take this opportunity to reaffirm our
commitment to Reconciliation through our 11 Reconciliation Strategies and implementation of the
City's UNDRIP Action Plan endorsed by Park Board in 2024. This work is made possible through
the dedication of staff in partnership with the local xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
(Squamish) and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations and Urban Indigenous communities.
National Indigenous History Month
National Indigenous History Month is celebrated every June across Canada to honour the rich
history, heritage, resilience and diverse cultures of the First Nations, Inuit, and Metis peoples. At
the Vancouver Park Board we are grateful to live and work on the unceded, traditional territories
of the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish) and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh)
peoples who have stewarded these lands and waters since time immemorial.
Throughout the month of June, there are many opportunities across the parks and recreation
system to celebrate National Indigenous History Month. The Park Board invites everyone to take
time to attend these community events and programs, support Indigenous artists and cultural
practitioners, and learn more about Indigenous peoples in Canada and Vancouver.
On June 21, there will be a National Indigenous People’s Day Celebration at Grandview Park, as
well as a National Indigenous People’s Day block party at Hastings and Main Street. On June 23,
New Brighton Pool will offer a free Indigenous Swim, and throughout June and July Woodland
Park will host West Coast Family Nights on Wednesday evenings. More information on related
events and activities can be found online.
Hadden Park Floating Sauna Update
Further to the February 27, 2026 Board Briefing memo titled “Rezoning Proposal for Floating
Sauna in Hadden Park”, a referral report on the rezoning of four custody care and maintenance
parcels in Hadden Park will be brought to City Council on June 2, 2026. Should Council approve
the report at that time, the item will be referred to public hearing at a future date, where Council
will decide on the rezoning.
The rezoning would enable a proposal for a floating sauna barge in Hadden Park’s Heritage
Harbour Marina to move forward through the addition of ‘Beauty and wellness centre’ as an
allowable land use, as well as the Museum and Park uses. Park Board staff have reviewed the
application and included conditions to mitigate potential impacts to park use and park operations,
including those from the installation of site servicing and utilities for the new land use. Restoration
of parkland will be to the satisfaction of the Park Board General Manager.
The sauna facility would be managed through a sub-lease from the Vancouver Maritime Museum
(VMM). Required VMM lease updates will be brought to Council at a future date and Park Board
staff will be engaged in the lease terms and renewal process, which will be led by the City’s ACCS
and REFM departments.
Page 1 of 3 1-Jun-26Villages Planning Program
A referral report on the Villages Planning Program be brought to City Council on June 2, 2026.
The program focused on enabling Missing Middle housing and strengthening 17 local commercial
areas and will be a key part of delivering the upcoming Vancouver Official Development Plan.
This work is led by the City’s Planning Department with support from Park Planning staff.
Growth will be gradual and dispersed, with forecasted growth of about 34-37,000 new residents
by 2050. Amenities will be delivered over time through development of patios, shops, eating areas
and childcare and community spaces, and through city-wide programs that upgrade parks, plazas
and community centres.
Council Business (relating to or impacting parks & recreation):
Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “Vision Zero Safe Mobility Plan”, which would
advance the City’s commitment to Vision Zero and the goal to eliminate all traffic fatalities and
serious injuries from our transportation network
Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “Proposed Amendments to the Election Bylaw”,
which would align the Election Bylaw with the Province’s amendments to the Vancouver Charter,
change the processing of mail in ballots, and implement additional Special Voting Opportunities
to be incorporated into the 2026 municipal election.
Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “2026 Cultural Grants (Projects, Cultural
Spaces, Capacity) and SRO Upgrading Grant”, which would approve a total of $2.6M in grants to
118 non-profit organizations to support programs and services for artists, the cultural community,
and the public.
Council to receive a report on June 2, 2026, titled “Auditor General Committee Recommendations
Transmittal Report”, which would endorse the ten recommendations of the Auditor General’s
Report entitled “Audit of Community Grants”.
Council to receive a report on June 3, 2026, titled “Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan
Implementation Grant Program Allocation 2026”, which would approve a total of $610,051 to 17
non-profit agencies to provide critical assistance and support community initiates to benefit
marginalized DTES residents.
Council to receive for a report on June 3, 2026, titled “City of Vancouver UNDRIP Task Force
Annual Report”, which would provide an annual update of three interconnected frameworks: the
UNDRIP Action Plan, the Reconciliation Framework, and the MMIWG2S+ Response Report.
Council to consider a motion on June 3, 2026, titled “Pride in Vancouver: Strengthening and
Celebrating the Vancouver Pride Festival”, which would approve a one-time grant of up to $75,000
to the Vancouver Pride Society to assist with costs associated with organizing and delivering
Vancouver Pride 2026.
Council to consider a motion on June 3, 2026, titled “More than Zero: Integrity and Accountability
for Staff and Department Changes”, which would direct staff to produce a public written report
Page 2 of 3 1-Jun-26disclosing all staffing and operational charges made across all City departments between January
2024 and now that relate to meeting budget targets.
Council to consider a motion on June 3, 2026 titled “Recognizing National Accessibility Week as
an Official City of Vancouver Observance,” which would direct staff to recognize the week as an
official City observance starting in 2026.
Board Briefing Memos and Emails: May 25 to June 1
Date Topic
May 29 GM Approval of Country Club Festival and Rosé Disco Festival
Page 3 of 3 1-Jun-26