Report Date: May 20, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Director, Business Services
SUBJECT: Burrard View Hospice – Vancouver Coastal Health – Lease Agreement Renewal
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation (“Park Board”) authorize staff to
negotiate to the satisfaction of the Park Board’s General Manager, the City of
Vancouver’s (the “City”) Director of Legal Services, and the City’s Chief Purchasing
Official, and enter into a lease agreement, with Vancouver Coastal Health (“VCH”) for
the field house at Burrard View Park for an initial term of ten (10) years, with two
additional five (5) year renewals, for a total contract term of twenty (20) years effective
September 1, 2026;
B. THAT the City’s Director of Legal Services, Chief Purchasing Official and Park Board’s
General Manager be authorized to execute on behalf of the Park Board the contract
contemplated by Recommendation A above.
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by the Park Board’s adoption of
Recommendations A and B above unless and until such contract is executed by the
authorized signatories of the City as set out in these Recommendations.
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
This report provides a review of the discussions and negotiations between VCH and Park Board
staff related to the field house at Burrard View Park. VCH seeks securing a twenty (20) year lease
to continue to operate a hospice for terminally ill adults which has been in existence since 1997
and known as the Cottage Hospice.
In exchange for the ability to provide hospice care from the site, VCH will initially invest
approximately $600,000 in much needed capital maintenance and commit to annual maintenance
and repairs at a minimum of $55,000/year for the entire building. VCH has also agreed to pay rent
as well all utilities, charges and Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT).
BOARD AUTHORITY / PREVIOUS DECISIONS
As per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over all areas
designated as permanent and temporary parks in the City of Vancouver, including any structures,
programs and activities, fees, and improvements that occur within those parks.
There is no applicable Park Board or Council authority or previous decisions related to this report.
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Burrard View Hospice – Vancouver Coastal Health – Lease Agreement Renewal Page 2
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
In 1997 the Park Board entered into a unique lease agreement with the St. James Community
Service Society, now known as the Bloom Group Community Services Society (Bloom). Under
contract with VCH, Bloom provided hospice care to up to ten (10) terminally ill adults in the
fieldhouse at Burrard View Park known as the Cottage Hospice. With the exception of the
envelope and structural components of the building, Bloom was responsible for maintaining the
building and grounds, and providing the community a meeting space on the lower floor of the
building.
In May 2024 Bloom ceased providing hospice care and after several months of discussions with
Park Board staff, on January 15, 2025, Bloom served early notice of lease termination to the Park
Board effective March 31, 2025.
As a result of public, community, Board and Council inquiries and concerns, in early 2025 VCH
contacted the City and Park Board to engage in discussions whereby VCH would directly operate
the hospice under lease with the City and Park Board.
Under a month-to-month licence agreement with the Park Board, VCH has been operating the
hospice in Burrard View Park since April 2026. VCH in partnership with the Vancouver Hospice
Society provides care for up to 10 terminally ill adults as well as grief support to families.
DISCUSSION
The Cottage Hospice has been an integral part of the community for almost 30 years, providing
low-cost end-of-life care for up to 10 terminally ill residents in a supportive and home-like
environment. Through the Hastings Community Centre many community groups have also
benefited from the ability to access a local neighbourhood meeting room.
VCH wishes to a secure a lease with the City and Park Board to continue delivering hospice care
to Vancouver residents. VCH will initially invest approximately $600,000 in much needed capital
and maintenance in the building and commit to annual maintenance and repairs of a minimum of
$55,000/year for the entire building. VCH has also agreed to pay rent as well all utilities, charges
and PILT.
In comparison to the previous lease with Bloom, the following table outlines key terms of the new
lease agreement with VCH:
Item Previous Lease New Lease with VCH
Lease Term 35 years: November 1, 1997 20 years: effective
– October 31, 2032; lease September 1, 2026; initial ten
was surrendered effective (10) year term, with two five
March 31, 2025 (5) year renewals for a total
of 20 years
Rent Structure $1.00/year $53,640/year for the first 10
years at the non-profit rate of
$10.00/ft².
Rent subject to market
reviews at the Renewals
Tenant Responsibility Maintenance, repairs and Maintenance, repairs and
improvements. improvements.
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Burrard View Hospice – Vancouver Coastal Health – Lease Agreement Renewal Page 3
City and Park Board City and Park Board
responsible for the envelope responsible for the envelope
and structural components of and structural components of
the building the building
Initial investment of $600,000
in the first year with a
minimum commitment of
$55,000/year towards facility
maintenance and repairs
Payment In Lieu of Taxes $0.00 $804.60/year based on 2026
(PILT) Council approved Supportive
Housing rate of $0.15/ft ².
Cancellation clause N/A VCH has 180-day
cancellation right if funding
for hospice is no longer
available
Meeting room on the lower Available to community by Available to community by
floor of the fieldhouse booking through Hastings booking through Hastings
Community Center Community Center
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
If granted a 20-year lease at the Burrard View Park field house, VCH has committed to an initial
capital investment of $600,000 in the building in the first year. They are committed to maintain the
facility to the highest standard with a minimum ongoing commitment of $55,000/year towards
facility maintenance and repairs.
Except for the structural and envelope components of the building, the City and Park Board will
not have any ongoing costs associated with maintaining the Burrard View Park field house.
At a rate $10.00/ft² VCH has agreed to pay an annual rent of $53,640/year for the first 10 years,
with applicable rent reviews at the five (5) year Renewals. VCH will be responsible for all site
maintenance, utility, sewer and water charges and an annual PILT of $804.60/year which is
subject to annual adjustments.
LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS
Park Board Procurement Policy requires that all contracts, renewals, extensions, and any other
forms of commitments and contracts will be on terms and conditions approved by the City
Solicitor.
The City’s Procurement Policy (ADMIN-008) requires the Director of Legal Services to execute
all contracts that have been awarded by the Bid Committee, Park Board and Council.
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
Staff recommend that the Vancouver Park Board approve and enter into a lease agreement with
the Vancouver Coastal Health Authority for an initial term of ten (10) years, with two additional
five (5) year renewals, for a total contract term of twenty (20) years
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026Burrard View Hospice – Vancouver Coastal Health – Lease Agreement Renewal Page 4
Should the Board approve the recommendations, a public Notice of Intent to Contract (NOITC)
will be posted by the Procurement Department and a request for final approval of the lease will
subsequently be sent to Council.
* * * * *
Park Board Meeting: June 1, 2026