SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES
Monday, March 16, 2026 at 5:00pm
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) met on Teams on Monday, March 16, 2026, at 5:00pm.
The meeting was live streamed.
Trustees Present: Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Janet Fraser, Vice-Chairperson
Alfred Chien
Preeti Faridkot
Suzie Mah
Christopher Richardson
J oshua Zhang
Trustees Absent with Regrets: Lois Chan-Pedley
Jennifer Reddy
Senior Team Members Present: Helen McGregor, Superintendent of Schools
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
J essie Gresley-Jones, Executive Director, Facilities
Also Present: Patricia MacNeil, Communications Director
Judy Mah, Executive Coordinator (Recorder)
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1. Land Acknowledgement
The Chairperson called the meeting to order at 5:01 pm. She acknowledged with deep gratitude and
respect, we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh
Nation).
1.2. Opening Remarks
The Chairperson reviewed meeting decorum then welcomed trustees and staff. She introduced the board
members who had joined the meeting online.
2. NEW BUSINESS
2.1 School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Queen Elizabeth Annex School Site Ground Lease Bylaw, 2026
The Secretary Treasurer presented a report titled School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Queen Elizabeth
Annex School Site Ground Lease Bylaw, 2026, and the accompanying bylaw which had been presented for
the Board’s consideration. She provided background and a high-level overview on the Queen Elizabeth
Annex (QEA) School Site Ground Lease. She briefly reviewed the history of the QEA School site from its
closure in June 2023 through to the May 2025 decision in the matter of CSF v British Columbia and VBE,
2025 BCSC 962 where the BC Supreme Court ordered the transfer of the QEA site to the CSF by freehold or
prepaid leasehold tenure. She highlighted the actions that had transpired between the VBE and the CSF
following the Court’s decision including the agreement to extend the transaction deadline three times, and
the negotiation of a 99-year ground lease agreement, subject to final approval by the Boards of the two
school districts and the Ministry of Infrastructure. Following this, she reviewed the list of material terms of
the lease detailed in the report, noting that the Board had reviewed the terms of the lease in detail at a
Special Private Board meeting on March 11, 2026.
Board Meeting Minutes Page 1 of 2In response to a procedural question raised by a trustee, the Secretary Treasurer explained that the
approval consideration of the bylaw involved two votes: a unanimous procedural vote to conduct all three
readings at the March 16, 2026 meeting, followed by a subsequent vote for the bylaw readings themselves,
which would require a majority vote. She further noted that if the first vote was not unanimous, the third
reading of the bylaw would need to be heard at a separate meeting
Moved by C. Richardson, seconded by J. Fraser, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Queen Elizabeth
Annex School Site Ground Lease Bylaw, 2026 be given three (3) readings and approved at the March 16,
2026 Public Board meeting.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by C. Richardson, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Queen Elizabeth
Annex School Site Ground Lease Bylaw, 2026 be:
Read a first time the 16th day of March, 2026;
Read a second time the 16th day of March, 2026;
Read a third and final time, passed and adopted this 16th day of March, 2026.
Trustees provided comments. Following discussion, board members voted on the motion.
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson. J. Zhang
Against: P. Faridkot
Abstained: S. Mah
3. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned by consensus at 5:18 p m.
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Board Meeting Minutes Page 2 of 2