REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 26, 2023
A regular meeting of the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation was held on Monday,
June 26, 2023, at 9:13 pm, in the Boardroom at the Park Board Office, and via videoconference.
PRESENT: Commissioner Scott Jensen, Chair
Commissioner Brennan Bastyovanszky, Vice Chair
Commissioner Laura Christensen
Commissioner Tom Digby
Commissioner Marie-Claire Howard
Commissioner Jas Virdi*
ABSENT: Commissioner Angela Haer (Leave of Absence)
GENERAL MANAGER’S Steve Jackson, Acting General Manager & Director of Business Services
OFFICE: Denise Swanston, Acting Manager, Board Relations & Meeting Clerk
Jessica Kulchyski, Board Support and Meeting Assistant
Julia Scott-Lenz, Board Support and Meeting Clerk
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Chair acknowledged that the meeting is taking place on the traditional, ancestral and unceded
territory of the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh First Nations. The meeting is being held
on the land respectfully and with the knowledge that there must be continued acknowledgement
of the history of injustice toward Indigenous peoples. The Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation is committed to supporting truth and reconciliation, and to use this opportunity to
amplify local First Nations voices and culture through our work in community.
IN CAMERA MEETING
MOVED by Commissioner Christensen
SECONDED by Commissioner Digby
THAT the Board will go into meetings prior to the next Regular Board Meeting, which are
closed to the public, pursuant to Section 165.2(1) of the Vancouver Charter, to discuss
matters related to paragraphs:
(a) personal information about an identifiable individual who holds or is being considered
for a position as an officer, employee or agent of the city or another position appointed by
the city;
(j) information that is prohibited, or information that if it were presented in a document
would be prohibited, from disclosure under section 21 [disclosure harmful to business
interests of a third party] of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act; andRegular Board Meeting Minutes
Monday, June 26, 2023 2
(k) negotiations and related discussions respecting the proposed provision of an activity,
work or facility that are at their preliminary stages and that, in the view of the Council,
could reasonably be expected to harm the interests of the city if they were held in public.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Absent: Commissioner Virdi
ADOPTION OF MINUTES
1. Regular Board Meeting – June 12, 2023
MOVED by Commissioner Digby
SECONDED by Commissioner Christensen
THAT the Minutes of the Regular Board meeting of June 12, 2023, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Absent: Commissioner Virdi
CHAIR’S REPORT
The Chair highlighted the participation of Commissioners at Park Board events since the previous
Board meeting on June 12, 2023:
 Chair Jensen attended the closing ceremonies for the Dunbar, Kerrisdale, and Trout Late
Little League teams.
 Chair Jensen attended the Enchanted Evening Concert Series at Sun-Yat Sen Classical
Chinese Garden alongside Councilor Kirby-Yung, Garden Director Lorraine Lowe, Terry
Yun, and Park Rangers.
 Chair Jensen, Commissioners Bastyovanszky and Howard attended the KitsFest VIP
Social to announce the 15th Annual KitsFest celebration.
 Chair Jensen and City Councilors attended the Dragon Boat Blessing Ceremony at the
Concord Pacific Dragon Boat Festival on June 24 and 25
 Commissioners, City Councilors, School Trustees and Mayor Sim attended the 35th
Annual 2023 Concord Pacific Dragon Boat Festival.
 Commissioner Bastyovanszky attended East Side Pride at Grandview Park with
organizers Benny and Madi.
 Commissioner Bastyovanszky, City Councilors, School Trustees, Ministers and MPs
attended a ceremony honoring the victims of Air India Flight 182 in Stanley Park.
COMMUNICATIONS
The Board was advised that no communications related to the Regular Board Meeting agenda
were received.Regular Board Meeting Minutes
Monday, June 26, 2023 3
BOARD COMMITTEE MEETING
1. Report of the Board Committee – June 26, 2023
The Board considered the report containing recommendations and actions taken by the Board
Committee. Its items of business included:
1. Community Centre Childcare Use of Park Space Policy
2. Brazilian Day - Special Event
3. Emery Barnes, Heather and Granville Parks Dog Off-Leash Area - Concept Plans
MOVED by Commissioner Christensen
SECONDED by Commissioner Bastyovanszky
THAT the Board approve the recommendations and actions taken by the Board Committee
at its meeting of June 26, 2023, as contained in items 1, 2 and 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
STAFF REPORTS & PRESENTATIONS
1. General Manager’s Report
Members of the Park Board Leadership Team presented the General Manager’s Report,
highlighting:
 Coastal Adaptation Planning Update
 Upcoming Council business related to or impacting parks and recreation:
- Report titled “Vancouver Community Sport Event Grants – Summer 2023 Intake”
 Board briefing memos and emails issued from June 12, 2023 to June 26, 2023.
NOTICES OF MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Assessment and mitigation of forest fire risk in Stanley Park
Commissioner Digby submitted notice of the following motion which may be placed on the
July 10, 2023, Regular Board meeting agenda as a Members’ Motion:
THAT the Vancouver Park Board direct staff to report back with an assessment of the risk
of forest fire in Stanley Park and an updated risk mitigation plan.
OTHER BUSINESS
Commissioner Bastyovanszky assumed the role of Chair to while Commissioner Jensen moved
the motion below; subsequently, Commissioners Jensen resumed the role of Chair.Regular Board Meeting Minutes
Monday, June 26, 2023 4
MOVED by Commissioner Jensen
SECONDED by Commissioner Digby
THAT the Board approve expenses related to Commissioners Jensen and Christensen’s
attendance at the 2023 BC Recreation and Parks Association Symposium in Vancouver,
which took place May 3-5, 2023, at an estimated cost of $1,580, to be funded from the
2023 commissioner expenses budget.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
In favour: Commissioners Bastyovanszky, Christensen, Digby, Jensen
Abstained: Commissioners Howard, Virdi
ENQUIRIES
Commissioners requested information related to the following topics:
1. Raising a pride progress flag in a Park Board Facility.
2. Status and project timeline for the expansion of the Sunset Beach Dog Park.
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.
The Board adjourned at 9:32 pm.
* * * * *
________________________ _____________________________
Steve Jackson Commissioner Scott Jensen
Acting General Manager Chair