PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
MAY 5 AND 7, 2026
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, May 5, 2026, at 6:11 pm, in the
Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. Subsequently, the meeting recessed and reconvened
on Thursday, May 7, 2026, at 3 pm. This Public Hearing was convened in person and via
electronic means as authorized under Section 559.03 of the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Deputy Mayor Sarah Kirby-Yung, Chair
Acting Mayor Peter Meiszner*, Chair (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – May 5, 2026)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– May 7, 2026)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
Mayor Ken Sim* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business – May 5
and 7, 2026)
ABSENT: Councillor Sean Orr (Leave of Absence – Personal Reasons)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Katrina Leckovic, City Clerk
Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Kevin Burris, Manager, Civic Agencies
Sonia Lotay, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
* * * * *
On May 5, 2026, Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung assumed the Chair in the absence of Mayor Sim
and Acting Mayor Meiszner, who were both on leave of absence.
* * * * *
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 2
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
* * * * *
On May 5, 2026, Council recessed at 6:14 pm and reconvened at 6:50 pm.
* * * * *
VARY AGENDA
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT Council vary the order of the agenda to deal with Report 2 first.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Meiszner and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
Note: For clarity, the minutes are recorded in chronological order.
* * * * *
2. Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use Commercial
District
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to introduce a new C-2A
commercial mixed-use district schedule and to rezone 2,348 properties to
C-2A that are currently zoned C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1 to enable up to six
storeys for rental housing and hotels. The new C-2A enables up to eight
storeys in transit-oriented areas for rental housing and hotels.
To amend Section 2 of the Zoning and Development By-law to add a new
definition of “transit-oriented area” and amend the R3 Districts Schedule, R4
District Schedule and R5 Districts Schedule of the Zoning and Development
By-law to remove the replicated transit-oriented area definition.
Amend the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan to extend rental
housing replacement requirements to the new C-2A district. Properties
proposed for rezoning to the new C-2A district are already subject to the
Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan based on their existing
zoning in C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 3
Amend the Downtown-Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan to
remove the replicated definition of transit-oriented area that is proposed to be
added to Section 2 of the Zoning and Development By-law.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval.
Council also had before it a yellow memorandum from the Director of Housing Policy and
Regulation dated April 27, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels –
New Mixed-Use Commercial District – Corrections to the Appendices A and H.”
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to the Public Hearing and before the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 61 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 80 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• one piece of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
None.
Speakers
The Chair called three times for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Jordan Su
• Royce Chwin
• Jack Bernard
• Taylor Curran
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
• Michelle Travis
• Stephen Von Sychowski
• Stanley Lee
• Matthew Decorby
• Fabiola Salguero
• Rekha SharmaPublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 4
• Felicisima Belingon
• Angel Batan
• Rajwinder Parmar
• Connie Chan
• Zalida Chan
• Diego Reyes Meneses
• Dominador Gentuya
• Robert Bader
• Kabir Madan
• Matt De Marchi
• Fe Casaas
• Linda Ong
• Preet Sangha
• Mikaela Smith
• Tori Cooper
• Lian Sheng Lin
• Shaelyn Arnould
• Cristina Figueroa
• Jay Sanchez
• Naya Holers
• Gulzar Grewal
• Pardeep Thandi
• Kiranjit Dhillon
• Richard Campbell
• Deirdre Whalen
• Ruofan Wang
• Joan Jaccard
• Gudrun Langolf
• Russil Wvong
• Sal Robinson
• Rahul Sansoya
• Laurel Stranaghan
• Botchman “Bo” Jomo
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 9:22 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
The Applicant provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
None.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 5
Council Questions Following Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to additional questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
A. THAT Council approve the application to amend the Zoning and Development
By-law in accordance with Appendix A of the Referral Report dated March 3,
2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use
Commercial District” as follows:
(i) add a new commercial district schedule C-2A;
(ii) rezone certain parcels from C-2, C-2B, C-2C and C-2C1 districts to new
C-2A district; and
(iii) update wording for consistency of regulations,
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Zoning and Development By-law in accordance
with Appendix A of the above-noted report;
AND FURTHER THAT the staff yellow memorandum dated April 27, 2026,
entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use
Commercial District – Corrections to the Appendices A and H,” form a part of this
motion.
B. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve the amendments to the
Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan By-law to include the C-2A
district generally in accordance with Appendix B of the Referral Report dated
March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New
Mixed-Use Commercial District”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Rental Housing Stock Official Development Plan
By-law generally in accordance with Appendix B of the above-noted report at the
time of enactment of the Zoning and Development By-law amendments in A
above.
C. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve the amendments to the
Subdivision By-law to include the C-2A district generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the Referral Report dated March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking
Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use Commercial District”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Subdivision By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix C of the above-noted report at the time of enactment of the Zoning and
Development By-law amendments in A above.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 6
D. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve the amendments to the
Sign By-law to include the C-2A district generally in accordance with Appendix D
of the Referral Report dated March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental
Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use Commercial District”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Sign By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix D of the above-noted report at the time of enactment of the Zoning and
Development By-law amendments in A above.
E. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve the amendments to the
Noise Control By-law to include the C-2A district generally in accordance with
Appendix E of the Referral Report dated March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking
Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use Commercial District”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Noise Control By-law generally in accordance
with Appendix E of above-noted report at the time of enactment of the Zoning
and Development By-law amendments in A above.
F. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve the amendments to the
Parking By-law to include the C-2A district generally in accordance with Appendix
F of the Referral Report dated March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental
Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use Commercial District”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Parking By-law generally in accordance with
Appendix F of the above-noted report at the time of enactment of the Zoning and
Development By-law amendments in A above.
G. THAT, subject to approval of A above, Council approve the amendments to the
Downtown Eastside/Oppenheimer Official Development Plan By-law to update
wording for consistency of regulations, generally in accordance with Appendix G
of the Referral Report dated March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental
Housing and Small Hotels – New Mixed-Use Commercial District”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment amendments to the Downtown Eastside/Oppenheimer Official
Development Plan By-law generally in accordance with Appendix G of the
above-noted report at the time of enactment of the Zoning and Development
By-law amendments in A above.
H. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law, Council approve the amendments to various land use
documents generally in accordance with Appendix H of the Referral Report dated
March 3, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels – New
Mixed-Use Commercial District,” and as amended by the yellow memorandum
dated April 27, 2026, entitled “Fast-Tracking Rental Housing and Small Hotels –
New Mixed-Use Commercial District – Corrections to the Appendices A and H.”Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 7
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11589)
(Councillor Fry abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Meiszner and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
* * * * *
On May 5, 2026, after completion of Item 2, it was
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT, under section 2.8(c) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
10 pm to hear the staff and applicant presentations for Item 1.
WITHDRAWN
The motion to extend was withdrawn by the mover with the consent of Council.
* * * * *
On May 5, 2026, Council recessed at 9:55 pm and reconvened on May 7, 2026, at 3 pm, with
Acting Mayor Meiszner in the Chair.
* * * * *
1. CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896 Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street
An application by Nonni Property Group was considered as follows:
Summary: To rezone 888-896 Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street from DD
(Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to permit
the development of a 29-storey mixed-use building containing 165 rental
units, 246 hotel rooms, commercial space on the ground floor, and the
retention of a Vancouver Heritage Register listed building (Stanley Brock
Building). A floor space ratio (FSR) of 19.5 and a height of 85.4 m (280 ft.),
are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.
Council also had before it a yellow memorandum from the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability dated April 22, 2026, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896 Cambie
Street and 111-191 Smithe Street – Amendment to draft CD-1 By-law.”
Summary of CorrespondencePublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 8
The following correspondence was received since referral to the Public Hearing and before the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
• 77 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
• 27 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
• two pieces of correspondence regarding other aspects related to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
The Applicant provided opening comments and responded to questions.
* * * * *
During hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT under Section 2.8(b) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
5 pm in order to complete hearing from speakers for Item 1, and to close the speakers
list and receipt of public comments.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
* * * * *
Speakers
The Chair called three times for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
• Ruofan Wang
• Russil Wvong
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
• Michelle Travis
• Matthew Decorby
• Kirsten Lebrun
• Botchman “Bo” Jomo
• Janet BuddPublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 9
• Zalida Chan
• Steve Cashmore
• Naya Holers
• Cristina Figueroa
• Matthew De Marchi
• Prathamesh Phule
• Emily Armitage
• Fe Casas
• Ronan Hannigan
• Shaelyn Arnould
• Rowena Umali
• Christina Bencze
• Anika Andersen
• Robert Demand
• Xiao Li Tang
• Wilma Iyog
• Gulzar Grewal
• Preet Sangha
• Patdeep Thandi
• Kiranjit Dhillon
• Lian Shen Lin
• Cindy Jane Magbanua
• Marlen Celmar
• Lovepreet Kaur
• Elfina Lambertus
• Edna Natino
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 6:21 pm.
* * * * *
On May 7, 2026, Council recessed at 6:22 pm and reconvened at 6:52 pm.
* * * * *
Applicant Closing Comments
The Applicant provided closing comments.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided closing comments.
Council Questions Following Staff Closing CommentsPublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 10
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to additional questions.
* * * * *
During discussion, Acting Mayor Meiszner ceded the Chair to Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung to
provide comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
A. THAT the application by Nonni Property Group, on behalf of:
• A J Six Holdings Ltd., the registered owner of 888 Cambie Street [Lots 27
and 28 Block 68 District Lot 541 Plan 2565 and Lot 29 Except the East 2
Feet Block 68 District Lot 541 Plan 2565; PIDs 011-209-453, 011-209-
470 and 011-209-488, respectively]; and
• 888 Cambie Holdings Ltd., the registered owner of 896 Cambie Street
and 111-191 Smithe Street [Lots 25 and 26 Block 68 District Lot 541 Plan
2565; PIDs 008-407-193 and 008-407-215, respectively];
to rezone the lands from DD (Downtown) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive
Development) District, to increase the maximum floor space ratio (FSR) from 5.0
to 19.5 to permit the development of a 29-storey mixed-use building containing
165 rental units, 246 hotel rooms, and commercial space on the ground floor,
generally as presented in the Referral Report dated March 31, 2026, entitled
“CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896 Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street,” be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft CD-1 By-law, prepared in accordance with Appendix A
of the above-noted report, be approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by McKinely Studios, received May 21, 2025,
with supplemental plans submitted November 18, 2025;
FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of Approval
contained in Appendix B of the above-noted report;
AND FURTHER THAT the staff yellow memorandum dated April 22, 2026,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896 Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street –
Amendment to draft CD-1 By-law,” form a part of this motion.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 11
B. THAT subject to approval in principle of the rezoning and the Housing Agreement
described in Part 2 of Appendix B of the Referral Report dated March 31, 2026,
entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896 Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street,”
the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing
Agreement By-law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject
to such terms and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director
of Legal Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability.
C. THAT the heritage designation of the Cambie Street facade of the existing
building known as the “Stanley Brock Building”, located at 888 Cambie Street
[Lots 27 and 28 Block 68 District Lot 541 Plan 2565 and Lot 29, Except the East
2 Feet Block 68 District Lot 541 Plan 2565; PIDs 011-209-453, 011 209-470 and
011-209-488, respectively], as protected heritage property, be approved in
principle;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to prepare and
bring forward the Heritage Designation By-law, generally as set out in Appendix
C of the Referral Report dated March 31, 2026, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 888-
896 Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street," prior to enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
D. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the application to amend the Sign
By-law to establish regulations for the CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C
of the Referral Report dated March 31, 2026, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896
Cambie Street and 111-191 Smithe Street,” be approved.
E. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include this CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix C of the Referral
Report dated March 31, 2026, entitled “CD-1 Rezoning: 888-896 Cambie Street
and 111-191 Smithe Street”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1
By-law.
F. THAT A to E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City; and
any expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the Public Hearing
shall not obligate the City to enact a by-law rezoning the property, and
any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements imposed as a condition of
rezoning are at the risk of the property owner; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority orPublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, May 5 and 7, 2026 12
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11616)
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
The Public Hearing adjourned on May 7, 2026 at 7:13 pm.
* * * * *