SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES
Tuesday, April 07, 2026 at 5:00pm
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) met in room 114 (the Boardroom), VSB Education
Centre, 1580 West Broadway, Vancouver, B.C. on Tuesday, April 07, 2026, at 5:00pm. The meeting was live
streamed.
Trustees Present: Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Janet Fraser, Vice-Chairperson
Lois Chan-Pedley
Preeti Faridkot
Suzie Mah
Christopher Richardson
Trustees Absent with regrets: Alfred Chien
Jennifer Reddy
Joshua Zhang
Senior Team Members Present: Helen McGregor, Superintendent of Schools
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
Pedro da Silva, Associate Superintendent
Maureen McRae-Stanger, Associate Superintendent
Janis Myers, Associate Superintendent
Alison Ogden, Associate Superintendent
Michael Gray, Executive Director, Employee Services
Jessie Gresley-Jones, Executive Director, Facilities
Lorelei Russell, Executive Director, Finance
A lso Present: Patricia MacNeil, Director of Communications
Judy Mah, Executive Coordinator (Recorder)
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1. Land Acknowledgement
The Chairperson called the meeting to order. She acknowledged with deep gratitude and respect, we
are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm
(Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation).
2. NEW BUSINESS
2.1. Presentation of Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan
The Superintendent and Secretary Treasurer provided an overview of the Draft 2026-2027 Financial
Plan and Draft 2026-2027 Annual Budget Bylaw, a copy of which was on file with the meeting agenda.
They referred to the Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan booklet and presentation slides to highlight the
main points in their presentation and to guide the discussion. The Board and members of the public
in the boardroom received printed copies of the Draft Financial Plan and the Draft Annual Budget
Bylaw, which were posted on the VSB website at the start of the meeting.
The Superintendent acknowledged the support and contributions of senior staff and the budget team
in the presentation of a multi-year financial plan that incorporates all funds. She informed the Board
that staff would be presenting a balanced operating budget for the 2026-2027 school year then
Board Meeting Minutes Page 1 of 3reviewed the Provincial Policy and Legislative Frameworks that guide the financial planning process,
including the Framework for Enhancing Student Learning (FESL). She noted the importance of the
Education Plan and the key considerations from the financial plan engagement process to date in
informing the draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan.
She summarised the legislative requirements outlined in the BC School Act, including the Board’s
obligation to adopt a balanced budget by board bylaw before June 30th and the legislative requirement
introduced in 2025 for Boards to establish an Indigenous Education Council (IEC) responsible for
approving targeted Indigenous funds. She noted that the Board would need to consider approval of
the budget at the April 29, 2026 Public Board meeting in order to meet collective agreement
obligations related to staffing.
She provided background on the development of the Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan and outlined the
engagement activities included in the financial plan engagement timeline. She reviewed the key
engagement opportunities that started in early January 2026, including written submissions, meetings
with inherent rights holders, stakeholder groups, a public survey, and workshops, with the input
received informing key priorities and budget decisions. Following this, she shared the key takeaways
based on the input received.
The Secretary Treasurer continued the presentation by outlining the budget estimates development
process, noting that the development of the annual budget for 2026-2027 included the approval of
the 2025-2026 amended annual budget, submission of three-year enrolment projections to the
Ministry, development of a base budget, conducting a review of spending related to grants,
consideration of structural deficit reduction strategies and engagement feedback to inform financial
priorities.
She reported on enrolment projections and patterns, the funding allocation system and the Ministry
of Education and Child Care’s formula for allocating provincial operating grants. She noted that the
District is expected to receive a preliminary operating grant of $589.51 million for 2026-2027, and that
this amount would be amended based on actual student enrolment. She reviewed the different types
of Special Grants, summarized the revenue and expenses for all funds noting that a deficit of $1.63M
is budgeted for the capital fund, which is permitted for the amount that amortization of tangible
capital assets expense exceeds amortization of deferred capital revenue. She provided the Board with
a breakdown of revenue and expenses under the operating fund.
The Superintendent reviewed the Operating Budget Highlights in the areas of Indigenous Education,
Inclusive Education, International Education, Early Learning and Child Care, Food Services, Print Shop
Operations, and Vancouver Project Office. The Secretary Treasurer summarized the key risks to budget
estimates, including risks related to revenue estimates, expense estimates, potential capital project
over expenditure, mitigation of enterprise risk and addressing the structural deficit. She concluded
the presentation by reviewing opportunities for engagement and upcoming meetings in the 2026-
2027 financial planning timeline.
The Chairperson thanked staff who worked on the Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan.
Trustees asked questions regarding the Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan and staff provided clarification.
In response to a question raised by a trustee, the Superintendent informed the Board that any
additional questions from trustees could be emailed to the Secretary Treasurer’s Office copying the
Superintendent.
Board Meeting Minutes Page 2 of 33. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned by consensus at 6:05 pm.
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Board Meeting Minutes Page 3 of 3