PARK BOARD MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
⎯ March 30 & 31, 2026 ⎯
The following information is intended to provide a brief overview of the Board’s governance work
at the Committee and Board meetings. The full agenda, meeting materials, video clips and official
minutes can be found on the Park Board website.
STAFF REPORTS / PRESENTATIONS
Columbia Park Renewal – Concept Plan
The Board approved the Columbia Park Renewal Concept Plan. This concept plan envisions a
multifunctional neighbourhood park that integrates recreation, social spaces, and blue-green
rainwater infrastructure. Key elements include a synthetic turf field to replace an existing grass
sports field and softball diamond, a renewed playground, accessible pathways and plazas, active
and passive open spaces, and a new fenced dog off-leash area.
Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan
The Board approved the Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field Concept Plan with amendments
directing staff to proceed with the proposed concept plan on the condition that the field be
designed to achieve a minimum playable width of 60 metres. The next steps for this project include
continuing engagement with interested parties, and potential partner groups and procuring
consultant services to proceed to the detailed design phase. Detailed design is targeted to be
complete in 2027 which will allow the project to be construction ready in 2028, subject to funding.
Bard on the Beach – Burrard Civic Marina Temporary Storage Facility – Lease of Space
The Board approved the Bard on the Beach – Burrard Civic Marina Temporary Storage Facility –
Lease of Space, permitting Bard on the Beach to lease approximately 20,000 square feet of space
at the Burrard Civic Marina land storage lot for use as a temporary storage facility, including the
installation of a Quonset tent structure. This collaboration and partnership with the Park Board
will help Bard navigate the challenging transition to a more efficient storage model for the next
decade. In addition, storing this equipment and infrastructure at the marina will provide logistical
efficiencies and significantly reduce transportation costs, environmental impacts, and
neighbourhood impacts by eliminating roughly 40 fully loaded semi-trailers trips annually to/from
BOTB’s Vanier Park location, as well as numerous trips with a 5-ton transport vehicle
Vancouver Aquarium Development Permit
The Board approved the Vancouver Aquarium Development Permit on consent. The Vancouver
Aquarium is looking to undertake an upgrade to the BC Wild Coast pools. The scope of the project
will include repairs to pool waterproofing, underwater window replacements and will replace the
life support mechanical systems that are beyond life expectancy. These improvements will
enhance water quality resulting in improved animal welfare. Key updates also include reducing
the overall water volume and repurposing the existing pool bases to introduce a new themed
habitat. The project will increase circulation space for visitors, provide additional weather
protected outdoor areas, improve accessibility within the facility and enhance the overall guest
experience.
2026 Outdoor Pools Operational Plan – Update
The Board approved the 2026 Outdoor Pools Operational Plan. Using data from the Outdoor Pool
Engagement Survey and the Park Board Outdoor Pools Utilization Dashboard, Park Board staff's
focus for the 2026 season is on improving awareness of the reservation system and implementing
evidence-based adjustments to further enhance patron experience. These changes include
extended operating hours, redesigning swim session lengths, adjusting the late entry allowance,
Page 1 of 3 1-Apr-26adjusting the reservation and drop-in ratios, as well as implementing transfers and refunds to
release unused reservations. Staff will continue to monitor operational data, patron feedback, and
emerging trends to refine processes and improve service delivery, aligning with ongoing efforts
to adapt services in response to operational realities, Vancouver Coastal Health considerations,
and community needs.
Allocation and Affiliation Policies – Update
The Board received a presentation regarding the Park Board’s Allocation and Affiliation Policies,
sharing draft affiliation criteria, allocation principles, and allocation prioritization. Affiliation
prioritizes access to facilities for groups based on public benefit, safety and equity, while allocation
decides how a limited number of spaces are strategically, consistently, and equitably distributed
among used groups. The presentation also described how engagement with user groups will
inform and guide development of completed policies, with the goal of implementing permitting
changes in 2027.
CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Digby highlighted recent events attended by commissioners:
- Liaison Roles – Chair Digby – Chair Digby attended CCA meetings at Champlain Heights,
Kerrisdale, Sunset and Britannia in his role as liaison
- Kitsilano Showboat Season – Commissioner Jensen met with Barry Leinbach from the
Kitsilano Showboat
- Kitsilano Basketball Court Improvements – Commissioner Jensen met with Howard Kelsey,
Rory Dellow and Jonathon Lee and shared their excitement with the upcoming improvements
to the basketball courts at Kitsilano
- V6A Community Garden Opening – Chair Digby attended the opening of the V6A Community
Garden on Hastings Street
- Tree Story Tour – Chair Digby attended a tree story tour and forest walk on the Champlain
Heights Trail
- Heritage Plaque – Chair Digby attended the unveiling of a heritage plaque at City Farmer
Community Garden on the Arbutus Greenway
- Meeting with City Councillors – Chair Digby and Commissioner Christensen met with
Councillors Dominato, Meiszner, Klassen, Orr, Maloney and Fry to discuss Park Board
considerations regarding the 2027-2030 Capital Plan
- Park Visits – Comr. Jensen – Commissioner Jensen visited Maple Grove Park and Pool and
Tisdall Park
- Memorial South Park Pond – Commissioner Jensen met with Kathryn Langmead to celebrate
the work done by Park Board staff on renewing the Memorial South Park Pond
- The Big Picnic – Commissioners attended The Big Picnic at David Lam Park, hosted by the
Vancouver Cherry Blossom Festival
Page 2 of 3 1-Apr-26GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
The General Manager presented an overview of the GM’s report:
- Celebrating Vancouver’s Cherry Trees – The Park Operations Urban Forestry team
highlighted ongoing collaboration with the Vancouver Cherry Blossom Festival and recent
specialty tree plantings in David Lam Park and Queen Elizabeth Park.
- 2026 Daisy Chin Woman of Inspiration Award – On March 5, Park Board staff gathered to
celebrate the 2026 Diasy Chin Woman of Inspiration Award, presented to Katy Amon,
Senior Planner with the Planning and Policy team.
- Jody Taylor Memorial - March 31, 2026, marks the tenth anniversary of the passing of
Park Board arborist Jody Taylor, who was fatally injured while working in Connaught Park.
Jody’s memory reinforces the commitment to safety so that staff all go home at the end of
the day to families, friends, and loved ones.
- Council to Council to receive a report on March 31, 2026, titled “Funding Application to
Green and Inclusive Community Buildings Program”
- Council to receive a report on April 1, 2026, titled “Contract Award for the Provision of a
Recreation Management System”
- Council to consider a motion on April 1, 2026, titled “Fostering Inclusive and Diverse
Democracy Through Harassment Prevention”
- Council to consider a motion on April 1, 2026, titled “Creating a City of Vancouver Festival
Support Fund”
- Council to consider a motion on April 1, 2026, titled “Establishing a City Comptroller By-
law for Budget Efficiency and Asset Management Framework”
BOARD MOTIONS
2030-2038 Barclay Street Rezoning Impacts on Stanley Park
The motion was approved, with amendments directing staff to ensure any future development
application for 2030-2038 Barclay Street is brought to the attention of the Vancouver Park Board.
OTHER BUSINESS
Restoring Lifeguard Service at Key Vancouver Beaches
The Board approved an motion requesting that City Council allocate up to $600,000 within the
2026 operating budget, contingency, or appropriate reserve to restore seasonal lifeguard services
at Spanish Banks East, Spanish Banks West, Sunset Beach, and Third Beach for the 2026
summer season. Should the funding be approved by Council, staff were directed to report back
to the Board with implementation timelines, recruitment strategies, and operational requirements
necessary to ensure lifeguard services are in place for the 2026 season.
NEXT MEETINGS
The next Special Park Board meeting is scheduled for April 7, 2026
The next Committee and Board meetings are scheduled for April 13, 2026
Page 3 of 3 1-Apr-26