BEACONSFIELD PARK
SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
Concept Plan
Park Board Committee Meeting
Monday, March 30, 2026Purpose of Presentation
▪ The purpose of this presentation is:
• To provide a summary of information on the proposed Beaconsfield
Park Synthetic Turf Field project, which spans several years.
• To share findings from the recent feasibility study that indicates that a
regulation size synthetic turf soccer field is possible
• To seek a Board decision on the proposed concept plan to advance
the project to the detailed design phase.
2Context
Grandview Hwy.
.tS
Senior’s Italian n a
Care Facility Cultural c o
Centre
lS
Drainage Ditch
Playground
Gravel Field
Constructed 215+
Wetland Memorial
Garden and
Community
Garden
Fieldhouse
Class ‘A’ Grass
Soccer Field
SE Ball
SW Ball
Diamond
Diamond
E 17th Ave.
PARK LOCATION PARK BOUNDARY
3Background
▪ Beaconsfield Park gravel field considered potential
synthetic turf field site since 2009 with community
engagement in 2018 indicating positive support
▪ Sport Field Strategy (SFS) included 3 rounds of
public engagement:
• 3rd round gathered feedback on ‘Big Move’ 2:
Convert select all weather (gravel) fields to
synthetic turf fields including Beaconsfield
▪ Beaconsfield was identified third in the SFS’s
approved sequencing plan for Big Move 2
▪ July 7, 2025, Board motion and September 17, 2025,
Council motion directs staff to prioritize the project
within the 2027-2030 Capital Plan
4Synthetic Turf vs Natural Turf: Comparison
Considerations Synthetic Turf Natural Turf (Class A - B)
Service Levels & • High, year-round capacity that supports • Capacity limited by seasonal conditions, turf
Utilization high-intensity recovery - not intended for continuous,
• ~3,000 permitted hours/year high-intensity use
(equivalent to 4 Class A sports fields) • ~300–600 permitted hours/year depending on
• Resilient under high use and wet Class
conditions • Higher risk of surface deterioration
Cost Considerations • Higher upfront capital cost ($$$$) • Lower upfront capital cost ($$-$$$)
• Recovers more than 100% of expenses • Recovers 8-10% of expenses through revenue
through revenue (Ongoing maintenance costs not fully
recoverable)
Operations & • Require low-to-moderate, specialized • Require high, consistent maintenance
Maintenance Inputs maintenance (grooming, infill (mowing, watering, fertilizing, aerating)
replacement) • Need rest between games to manage wear.
• Can accommodate continuous use
5Synthetic Turf vs Natural Turf: Key Considerations
▪ Challenge of comparing costs: Capital cost alone is
misleading because while syn. turf has a higher upfront cost,
it supports significantly higher use, which directly influences
revenue potential and cost recovery.
▪ Park provision: Because synthetic turf fields accommodate
more use at a single field, there is an opportunity to free up
scarce, valuable space in the park system for other park
uses.
▪ Growth Area: Effective rest and recovery of natural turf fields is
difficult in high-density areas. Limiting informal use requires a
level of enforcement that is not feasible, and fencing is not a
preferred solution due to unintended uses (i.e. dogs)
▪ The Sport Field Strategy's Environmental and Human
Health Report includes further information and
comparison between natural and synthetic turf fields.
6Feasibility Study – Key Findings
Drainage Ditch
▪ Site Fit Investigation
• Constrained site
• Accommodates regulation field
dimensions 100m x 55m Full Size
Soccer Field Constructed
Wetland
• SW field investigated
▪ Ground Conditions
Metro Vancouver
Sanitary Right-
Of-Way (dashed
• High groundwater and limited red lines)
infiltration capacity
▪ Environmental Considerations
BENEFITS OF 55m FIELD WIDTH
• Close proximity to constructed • Within standard full-size range per International
Football Association Board (IFAB) Laws
SW Field
wetland and drainage ditch • Youth Players: (current primary user) allows for
more touches, quicker decision making, improved
tactile learning
• Appropriate material selection and • Recreational users: reduces strain, requires less
stamina to enjoy play
physical interventions required to • Field size flexibility allows more fields in the
system within constrained city spaces.
avoid impacts 7Concept Plan
VanTech Renfrew
▪ New, lit synthetic turf field
Synthetic Skytrain
Turf Field Station
replaces the existing all-
weather gravel field
▪ Increases capacity to help
meet the rising demand for
3
year-round, high-quality
3
4
playing surfaces
2
3 7
▪ Well-positioned site to
1
accommodate increase in 5
2
3
activity, close to Van 6
4 5
Tech Syn Turf Field and
LEGEND:
Renfrew Skytrain Station 1. 100m x 55m Full Size Soccer Field
2. 55m x 47m Mini Soccer (U13 9v9) – 2 fields
• Plus lines for another sport TBD
3. Sport field Lighting
▪ Environmental impacts
4. Goal Storage Areas
5. Covered Player Benches
mitigation measures a key
6. Spectator Area (Subject to partner funding)
7. Pathway to existing fieldhouse
project component
8. Environmental impact management infrastructure
8
(multiple locations)Financial Considerations
▪ The total anticipated project costs based on ‘Order of Magnitude’
construction estimate and including soft costs, project management
fees, permitting, escalation and contingencies is $9.8M funded from
the 2023-2026 and 2027-2030 Capital Plans, subject to
prioritization within and approval of the 2027-2030 Capital Plan
▪ Potential partnership funding is to be determined and subject to
fundraising and partnership agreements. Any partner funding would
contribute towards amenities not covered in the base scope
estimated above
▪ Estimated annual operating impact to capital budget is $0.25M,
including $0.06M for synthetic turf operations.
9Project Timeline & Next Steps
2009 Shortlisted as Potential Turf Field Site
2018 Initial Technical Review and Engagement
2022-2024 Sport Field Strategy
Q3 2025 Board Motion
Q4 2025 Feasibility Study
March 2026 Park Board Decision on Concept Plan
Q2 2026 -Q3 2027 Detailed design & engagement with
_ interested parties
Q3 2027 Tender target date
Q1 2028 Construction start target date
10Recommendation
A. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan
for the Beaconsfield Park – Synthetic Turf Field as described in this
report and shown in Appendix A;
B. THAT staff continue to work with interested parties and partner
groups through detailed design to confirm project details, cost-
sharing or private contributions; and
C. THAT the Board direct staff to share this report with Mayor &
Council, for information, in relation the Council motion approved on
September 17, 2025, titled “Accelerating the Turf Field Upgrade at
Beaconsfield Park for Inclusion in the 2027-2030 Capital Plan”
11Questions and Comments
12