2026 OUTDOOR POOLS
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Update
Park Board Committee Meeting
Monday, March 30, 2026Purpose of Presentation
The purpose of this presentation is to provide a review of the 2025
outdoor pool season and secure a decision from the Board on the 2026
operational changes for outdoor pools.
2Context & Background
Outdoor Pools Reservation System
▪ 2018: Park Board began reviewing outdoor
pool access to address patron health, safety,
and experience.
▪ 2020: Introduced reservation-based sessions
to improve safety, access, and service
predictability.
▪ 2025: Implemented targeted adjustments to
the session structure at Kitsilano Pool.
3Context and Background
Aquatic Services Model
▪ Aquatic services function through two distinct staffing
systems (indoor & outdoor) that reflect different
operational contexts and collective agreements.
▪ Changes to the BC Health Act and aquatic safety
review with the Lifesaving Society led to lifeguard-to-
swimmer ratios reducing from 1:100 to 1:60.
▪ Capacity remains constrained by workforce
availability and scheduling preferences, reflecting
nationwide trends in the aquatics sector.
4Market Research Survey - Leger
Experience Accessing
Vancouvers Outdoor Pools
▪ Overall patron experience is good,
with 86% of recent visitors rating
their visit positively.
▪ Users who could not secure a
reservation still reported a largely
positive overall experience.
▪ Users of the reservation system
were more likely to be very satisfied
Q4. How would you rate your recent experiences accessing Vancouver’s outdoor pools over the
with their overall experience.
summer?
6Market Research Survey - Leger
Reservation System Feedback
▪ The most appreciated aspects
were predictable swim times and
reduced crowding
▪ The least appreciated aspects
were that reservations were filled
too quickly and finding available
time slots
Q6. Did the reservation system make it easier, or harder, for you to plan your visit to an outdoor pool
in Vancouver?
7Market Research Survey - Leger
Impact of Operational
Changes at Kits Pool
▪ No visible change to reservation
rates before and after changes
▪ Reservations filled more quickly,
compared to before the change.
▪ Most users reported no
noticeable impact (34%) or were
unsure whether the changes
affected their experience (28%).
Q9. In August, the Park Board made some changes to their reservation system at Kits Pool by
combining the last two daily sessions into one session that ran from 3pm to 8:30pm. If you attended
Kits Pool, how did this adjustment affect you?
82025 Outdoor Pool Season Data
▪ In 2025, staff engaged the City’s Strategy
& Project Support Office (SPSO) to
conduct a Core Service Review of
Outdoor Aquatics.
▪ The review focused on strengthening
equitable access and maximizing public
value.
▪ This work improved data processes and
developed an Outdoor Pools Utilization
Dashboard.
9Operating Hours and Session Design Changes
The following proposed changes are intended to create additional swim
opportunities and increase overall time in pool.
FOCUS AREA 2025 OPERATIONS 2026 OPERATIONAL CHANGE
Kits Pool: Kits Pool:
Open 7am Mon to Fri and 9am Sat/Sun Extend weekend operating hours (Sat/Sun).
Second Beach Pool: Second Beach Pool:
Open 12pm Mon to Sun Add a public session at 8:00 am.
Operating
Hours New Brighton Pool: New Brighton Pool:
Open 7am Mon to Fri and 9am Sat/Sun Adjust opening and closing by 30 minutes and extend weekend
length swims.
Maple Grove Pool:
Open 10:30am Mon to Sun Maple Grove Pool:
No change
• All public swim sessions were 2.5 hours • Most public swims will be 3 hours
Session • All length swim sessions were 1.5 hours • Final Kits Pool session will be 4 hours
Length • Length swims increase to 2 hours
• Four session breaks • Three session breaks at all outdoor pools except Maple
Changeover Grove
10Reservation System & Capacity Changes
The following changes were identified as opportunities to improve access,
equity and user experience
FOCUS AREA 2025 OPERATIONS 2026 OPERATIONAL CHANGE
Reservation • Public swims: 80% reservable / 20% drop-in • Public swims: 75% reservable / 25% drop-in
Ratio • Length swims: 50% reservable / 50% drop-in • Length swims: 50% reservable / 50% drop-in
Late Entry • Allow entry up to 30 minutes • Allow entry up to 15 minutes before session end
No-Show • No transfers and refunds • Implement transfers and refunds to release
Management • No enforcement of no shows unused reservations
• Follow up with frequent no-show patrons
Capacity • Staff deployment was consistent • Reallocate lifeguard staffing hours across sites to
Optimization across pools based on planned increase pool capacity
use (e.g. reservation allotment, weather)
11Recommendation
THAT the Vancouver Park Board endorse the 2026 operational
changes for outdoor pools as outlined in this report.
12