Report Date: March 18, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Director, Park Planning and Development
SUBJECT: Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for the
Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field as described in this report and shown in
Appendix A;
B. THAT staff continue to work with interested parties and partner groups through
detailed design to confirm project details, cost-sharing or private contributions; and
C. THAT the Board direct staff to share this report with Mayor & Council, for information,
in relation to the Council motion approved on September 17, 2025, titled
“Accelerating the Turf Field Upgrade at Beaconsfield Park for Inclusion in the 2027-
2030 Capital Plan”
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
The feasibility study and proposed concept plan described in this report is for a new synthetic turf
field at Beaconsfield Park, located in the Renfrew-Collingwood neighbourhood. The study focuses
on the northwest corner of the park where the synthetic turf field would replace the existing all
weather gravel field.
The purpose of this report is to provide background information, share the results of the feasibility
study (Refer to Appendix C) and seek a Board decision on the concept plan (Refer to Appendix
A) before the project can proceed to detailed design.
BOARD AUTHORITY / PREVIOUS DECISIONS
As per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over all
areas designated as permanent and temporary parks in the City of Vancouver, including any
structures, programs and activities, fees, and improvements that occur within those parks.
Beaconsfield Park has been considered for many years as a candidate location for a new
synthetic turf field. In 2009 the Park Board endorsed the Updated Shortlist of Potential Artificial
Turf Playing Field Sites that included Beaconsfield Park for further technical review and public
process. In 2017, the Park Board reaffirmed endorsement of Beaconsfield Park as a potential
synthetic turf site in the Synthetic Turf Playing Field - New Site Options report.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 2
On October 19, 2020, the Park Board approved the VanPlay Framework, for Vancouver’s Parks
and Recreation Services Master Plan. VanPlay set priorities and provides tools and policies to
support the pursuit of equity, connectivity and access to parks and recreation for all. The
Framework provides a succinct method for referencing and implementing VanPlay directions. The
Beaconsfield Synthetic Turf Field project aligns with VanPlay’s Goal 1: grow and renew assets.
On June 10, 2024, the Park Board approved the Vancouver sport field strategy which guides city-
wide sport field development, management and maintenance decision-making in Vancouver over
the next 10+ years and provides a basis for ongoing capital and operating plans and budgets.
Beaconsfield Park is included within ‘Big Move’ 2.
On May 23, 2025, Vancouver City Council approved the Rupert and Renfrew Station Area Plan.
The Plan includes guidance to enhancing existing parks to keep pace with growth and allow for
higher intensity of use specifically referencing a New Synthetic Turf Playing Field at Beaconsfield
Park.
On July 7, 2025, the Board approved the motion titled Accelerating the Turf Field Upgrade at
Beaconsfield Park for Inclusion in the 2027-2030 Capital Plan which directs staff to prioritize the
project for inclusion in the 2027-2030 Capital Plan, work with local interested parties and partner
groups to determine project scope and potential cost-sharing or private contributions and prepare
a feasibility study and funding framework to inform the Capital Plan.
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Site Description
Beaconsfield Park is a 4.43-hectare, permanent park (1982) located within the Renfrew-
Collingwood neighbourhood. The neighbourhood’s population has grown steadily over time and
is 17% denser than the City of Vancouver’s average density overall (Source: Renfrew-
Collingwood Neighbourhood Social Indicators Profile, 2020). In 2021, the neighbourhood had a
population of 52,974 which is anticipated to increase by approximately 30% to 73,792 by 2050.
This high pace of growth in the area highlights the importance of providing ongoing park upgrades
and improvements to keep up with growth and needs.
Park adjacencies include single and multiplex residences, Villa Carital, a senior's care facility and
the Italian Cultural Centre. The park includes the following amenities:
- A gravel all-weather field
- A class ‘A’ grass soccer field
- 2 baseball diamonds
- A fieldhouse building
- A playground
- A community garden
- A seasonal wetland (currently under construction)
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 3
Prior Engagement and Sport Field Strategy – Big Moves & Engagement
A community open house was held in November 2018 about the potential conversion of the gravel
field at Beaconsfield Park related to Synthetic Turf Playing Field - New Site Options and received
positive feedback from the community.
The Sport Field Strategy (SFS) recommends a series of “Big Moves” that includes converting
gravel all weather fields to synthetic turf fields. Big Move 2 provides direction to convert select all
weather (gravel) fields to synthetic turf. Conversion of the gravel field at Beaconsfield Park is
identified in the implementation plan in 2031-2034 following other planned conversion projects at
Oak Park and Killarney Park.
The SFS included 3 rounds of city-wide public engagement. The third round, conducted in 2023,
gathered feedback specific to Big Move 2 and gathered survey information from 580 total
respondents. 86% of respondents indicated overall support for the field conversions from gravel
to synthetic turf. 12 out of 15 user groups indicated that they strongly support the Big Move. Site
specific feedback on Beaconsfield Park showed positive comments regarding the conversion to
synthetic turf. Survey respondents expressed excitement about the location, citing growing soccer
and field hockey programs in the area, and noted converting Beaconsfield Park’s gravel field will
help to more evenly distribute synthetic turf fields across the city.
If the proposed concept plan is approved, staff would seek additional inputs from interest holders,
the Vancouver Field Sport Federation (VFSF), and inform immediate neighbours about the
project.
DISCUSSION
Feasibility Study
Following Board and Council direction, staff conducted a feasibility study and gathered input from
staff with expertise in park planning, recreation, operations, and environmental and stormwater
management. A consultant team experienced in sport field recreation development and
environmental management performed a site assessment and prepared a feasibility study report
and concept plan for a new synthetic turf field to upgrade the existing all-weather gravel field. The
study concluded that converting the all-weather field to synthetic turf is feasible with the following
key considerations identified:
Site Fit
- The gravel field site is limited by property lines to north and west, the new constructed
wetland to the west and a Metro Van Sanitary line to the south, which controls the
developable area. (Refer to Figure 1 in Appendix A).
- The current proposed field size is 55m width by 100m length, which balances the site
constraints with desired amenities and falls within the standard full-sized range per
International Football Association Board (IFAB) Laws. (Refer to Section 3.2. in
Appendix C for further detail). A wider field may be possible, but would have impacts
on spectator seating capacity, circulation to and around the field and will add project
costs due to additional earthworks and retaining requirements.
- While the SFS identifies a preferrable soccer field size of 64m x 100m, as this meets
the minimum FIFA standards for international, high-level matches (which would not be
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 4
possible here, but would be possible at the nearby Vancouver Technical Secondary
School field), the narrower width has several benefits:
- For youth players, the primary user at this field currently, it allows for more touches,
quicker decision making and improved tactile learning.
- For recreational users, a narrower field reduces strain and requires less stamina to
enjoy play.
- The flexibility in size allows more fields in the system within constrained spaces of the
city.
- An alternate option was investigated to test if a 64m wide field could fit in the park.
(Refer to Figure 3 in Appendix B). The study reviewed converting the southern Class
‘A’ grass field and SW baseball diamond to a 64m wide synthetic turf field. Although
feasible, this location would displace many existing permitted user groups, require the
removal of several mature trees and increases impacts to the overall site. To balance
user group needs, this option would also require that the gravel field be upgraded to a
Class ‘A’ grass field, which substantially increases overall project costs.
Ground Conditions
- The study found high groundwater and limited infiltration capacity. As a result, drainage
solutions such as structural, modular subsurface stormwater systems are required to
mitigate groundwater and infiltration challenges resulting in added cost.
Environmental Considerations
- The proposed field site is directly adjacent to the new seasonal wetland and drains
toward Still Creek.
- A preliminary environmental assessment has been completed as part of the feasibility
study (Refer to Section 6 in Appendix C) and further environmental consulting will be
undertaken.
- xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam) Environmental Stewardship Department has reached out
identifying concerns of potential chemical leachate from the infill products used in
some synthetic turf fields (e.g. 6 PPD Quinone) to Still Creek, the adjacent
Beaconsfield Park Constructed Wetland Project (in-progress) and the chemical’s
known negative effect on fish.
- The project addresses the concern by not using tire derived crumb rubber as a
synthetic turf infill product, the source of 6 PPD Quinone.
- Other physical intervention such as containment trays, raised curbs, and fencing
screens will also be used to prevent migration of material from the field.
- The SFS’s Environmental and Human Health report provides additional information
about synthetic turf fields and health: REPORT-SportsFieldStrategy-APPENDIXB-
2024-06-10.pdf
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 5
Potential Neighbourhood Impacts (Gravel Field vs. Synthetic)
- Lit gravel fields were intended to provide affordable all-weather alternatives to natural
turf and therefore increased field booking capacity prior to the innovation of synthetic
turf fields. Currently, user groups tend to use these gravel fields only as back-ups to
rain impacted bookings on natural turf fields as outlined in the SFS. Groups have also
expressed concerns over playability and perceived risk of injury on gravel fields often
leaving these sites underutilized. In comparison, synthetic turf is a more desirable
surface accommodating (on average) about four times the hours of play, increasing
bookable hours and reducing pressure on existing synthetic and natural surface fields.
This increased capacity helps to meet the rising demand for year-round, high-quality
playing surfaces.
- The increased use of synthetic turf fields and extended lighting hours can affect nearby
neighbourhoods by adding traffic, increasing parking demand, and prolonging noise
and light during hours of play.
- The Beaconsfield site is well-positioned to accommodate this activity due to its
proximity to rapid transit, with Renfrew SkyTrain Station within a 10-minute walk, which
helps reduce parking pressure in the area. In addition, the neighbouring Italian Cultural
Centre may provide access to its large surface parking lot for field users.
- To minimize the impact of extended lighting hours, the field will use a two-tiered lighting
system. High-level field lights will operate only during permitted booking times through
a controlled software system, ensuring they are off when the field is not in use. Lower-
level pedestrian lighting will remain on after bookings end to support pedestrian safety
around the field.
Archaeology and Indigenous Relations
Preliminary archaeological review identified the park as a low-risk site by the Park Board
archaeology team. Staff have submitted referrals to the Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh
First Nations.
Musqueam have expressed concerns regarding environmental impacts on Still Creek watershed
as discussed in the section above and have requested to continue to be involved in the project.
Park Board staff are in ongoing communication with Musqueam staff.
Partnerships
Following Board and Council direction, staff have been working with potential partner groups and
interested parties to assess possible cost-sharing or private contributions for the project. One of
the key community stakeholder groups and the main current user group of the all-weather gravel
field is the Italian Canadian Sport Federation (ICSF). The ICSF has expressed interest in providing
partnership funding for a designated feature (i.e. covered bleachers, scoreboard, fieldhouse
upgrades or an accessible walkway) to be confirmed through ongoing discussions during the
detailed design phase and subject to fundraising by the ICSF and partnership agreements that
outline use and management of any donated features. Regardless of donations made to the
project, the field will be allocated per current and future Park Board allocation and affiliation
policies.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 6
Fieldhouse
The existing fieldhouse within Beaconsfield Park currently includes one men’s changeroom, one
men’s washroom with a stall and a urinal and one women’s washroom with two stalls, as well as
an occupied caretaker’s suite. As the fieldhouse is in useable, operational condition, and due to
limited funding availability staff will consider future Beaconsfield fieldhouse improvements
alongside other priorities in the future, such as the 2031-2033 capital planning process.
Concept Design
The concept plan prepared as a part of the feasibility study shows the synthetic turf field within
the park. Highlights of the plan include the following:
- 110m x 61m Total Synthetic Turf Field Size with 100m x 55m Full Size Soccer Field
- 55m x 47m Mini Soccer (U13 9v9) – 2 Fields.
- The field can be lined for other sports such as lacrosse, which will be determined
through ongoing engagement with interested parties and the VFSF
- High-mast LED sport field lighting.
- Goal Storage areas at either end of the field.
- Covered Players Benches.
- Spectator Areas.
- Pathway to existing field house and public washrooms.
- Environmental impact management infrastructure (i.e. appropriate material selection,
containment trays, raised curbs, fencing screens etc.)
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
The total anticipated projects costs based on an ‘Order of Magnitude’ construction estimate and
including soft costs, project management fees, permitting, escalation and contingencies is $9.8M.
The breakdown of costs is as follows:
- Detailed design related costs are estimated at $550,000 to be funded by the 2023-
2026 Capital Plan and current capital budget.
- Construction costs related to sport field lighting are estimated at $900,000 to be funded
by the 2023-2026 Capital Plan and current capital budget.
- Other construction related costs are estimated at $8.35M which has potential to be
prioritized for funding in the 2027-2030 Capital Plan, subject to Board and Council
approvals and subsequent annual capital budget approvals.
- Potential partnership funding is to be determined and subject to fundraising and
partnership agreements. Any partner funding would contribute toward amenities not
covered in the base scope of project costs estimated above.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 7
Costs estimates for both the capital cost and operating costs will be refined through detailed
design. Based on the standard maintenance and operations practices for parks of comparable
size and program, the annual operating budget for this park is estimated to be $250,000 and
would be requested from future operating impacts of capital budget process.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
On September 17, 2025, Vancouver City Council approved the motion titled Accelerating the Turf
Field Upgrade at Beaconsfield Park for Inclusion in the 2027-2030 Capital Plan which supported
the directions included in the July 7 Park Board motion.
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
Subject to the Board’s decision on the recommendations outlined in this report, the next steps for
this project include continuing engagement with interested parties, VFSF, and potential partner
groups and procuring consultant services to proceed to the detailed design phase. Detailed
design is targeted to be complete in 2027 which will allow the project to be construction ready in
2028, subject to funding.
The concept plan for the synthetic turf field aligns with Park Board policies, is well supported by
the public through prior engagements, and follows Board direction to prioritize the Beaconsfield
Park gravel field upgrade. Staff recommend the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed
concept plan so that the project can proceed to detailed design.
* * * * *
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 8
APPENDIX A
Beaconsfield Park – Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Design
Figure 1: Beaconsfield Park – Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 9
Figure 2: Beaconsfield Park – Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Rendering
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026Beaconsfield Park Synthetic Turf Field – Concept Plan Page 10
APPENDIX B
Feasibility Study Excerpt – Site Fit Investigation
Figure 3: Site Fit Investigation – Alternate Location
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026APPENDIX C
Report
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation
Beaconsfield Park – Synthetic Turf Field - Feasibility Report
March 18, 2026
Binnie Project No: 25-0786-05
Reviewed by: Prepared by:
Matthew Harbut, MBCSLA Kevin Luu, BLArch
Division Manager, LAB Design Landscape Designer, LAB Design
R.F. Binnie & Associates Ltd.
300 - 4940 Canada Way
Burnaby, BC V5G 4K6
T: 604-420-1721
F: 604-420-4743
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026APPENDIX C
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
FEASIBILITY REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ................................................................. 1
2 PROJECT BACKGROUND ....................................................................... 2
2.1 Existing Site Description ................................................................................................. 3
3 SITE FIT INVESTIGATION ....................................................................... 4
3.1 Introduction ........................................................................................................................ 4
3.2 Regulation Field Dimensions ........................................................................................ 4
3.3 Site Fit Layout A1: 55m Wide Field in Northwest ................................................. 6
3.4 Site Fit Layout A1: Section ............................................................................................. 7
3.5 Site Test Fit Layout A2: 64m Wide Field in Northwest (Not Feasible) ........... 8
3.6 Site Fit Layout B: Alternative Location in Southwest .......................................... 9
3.7 Site Fit Layout B: Section .............................................................................................. 10
4 UTILITY CONCEPT ................................................................................ 11
4.1 Introduction ...................................................................................................................... 11
4.2 Site Overview .................................................................................................................... 11
4.3 Shallow Utilities ............................................................................................................... 11
4.4 Waterworks ........................................................................................................................ 12
4.5 Sanitary ............................................................................................................................... 12
4.6 Stormwater ........................................................................................................................ 13
5 ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION MEASURES ...................................... 17
5.1 Synthetic Turf Infill Materials ...................................................................................... 17
5.2 Infill Migration Prevention Measures ...................................................................... 19
6 PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ................................ 21
6.1 Still Creek Tributary ........................................................................................................ 21
6.2 Regulatory Considerations .......................................................................................... 21
6.3 Construction Considerations ...................................................................................... 22
7 GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION........................................................ 23
7.1 Subsurface Conditions .................................................................................................. 23
7.2 Infiltration........................................................................................................................... 24
7.3 Groundwater Conditions ............................................................................................. 24
7.4 Soil and Groundwater Testing ................................................................................... 25
7.5 Implications for Construction ..................................................................................... 25
8 ARCHAEOLOGICAL OVERVIEW ASSESSMENT ................................... 26
i
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026APPENDIX C
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
FEASIBILITY REPORT
9 SUMMARY ............................................................................................ 27
ii
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
1 LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This project takes place on the unceded, ancestral territories of xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam),
Sḵwx̱wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations. We honor and
acknowledge their stewardship of the lands since time immemorial.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
1APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
2 PROJECT BACKGROUND
Scope of Work
The Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation has retained R.F. Binnie and Associates with BlueLines
Environmental to review the feasibility of locating a new synthetic turf field at Beaconsfield Park to
replace the existing all-weather gravel field. The new turf field is to at minimum, accommodate a
regulation size soccer field with high-mast sport field lighting, players benches and accessible pathway
connections. The following study report includes site fit layouts with opportunities and constraints,
utility and storm water review, environmental assessment and mitigation measures, geotechnical
investigation and archaeological overview.'
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
2APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
2.1 Existing Site Description
Beaconsfield Park is a 4.43-hectare, permanent park located within the Renfrew-Collingwood
neighbourhood. Park adjacencies include single and multiplex residences, Villa Carital, a seniors care
facility and the Italian Cultural Centre. The park currently includes a gravel all-weather field, a class ‘A’
grass soccer field, 2 baseball diamonds, a fieldhouse building, a playground, a community garden and
a constructed wetland.
Figure 1 - Location of Beaconsfield Park
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
3APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
3 SITE FIT INVESTIGATION
3.1 Introduction
The following site fit investigation reviews the opportunities and constraints presented at Beaconsfield
Park when siting a regulation size synthetic turf field. The investigation focuses on the northwest corner
of the site where it is intended that the new turf field will replace the existing all weather gravel field.
3.2 Regulation Field Dimensions
When planning a new full sized soccer pitch within a constrained site, it is often necessary to evaluate
field dimensions that differ from the standard sizes used for top tier international competition. While
‑
FIFA stipulates a 64 m minimum width for fields used in international matches, many community based,
‑
recreational, and developmental facilities operate under more flexible provisions established by the
‑
Laws of the Game. In cases where land availability, setbacks, adjacent land uses, or environmental
protections limit the buildable area, a reduced—but still regulation compliant—field width may be
considered.
‑
This report includes a site fit layout that recommends full-sized (11v11) soccer field with a 55m width.
This is due to the nature of a site with physical constraints and where the anticipated primary users are
local amateur clubs and youth development programs. Reduced dimensions are explicitly permitted
under the Laws of the Game written by The International Football Association Board (IFAB), and are
widely recognized by global and regional governing bodies as an appropriate solution where land
availability, setbacks, adjacent uses, or environmental constraints limit the field footprint.
The International Football Association Board (IFAB) clearly states in Law 1 – The Field of Play that a
full-sized soccer field may legally range in size:
 Length: minimum 90 m
 Width: minimum 45 m
These minimums exist precisely to allow football to be played safely and fairly in settings where more
space is unavailable. FIFA further reinforces that pitches “may vary within defined limits” and that this
flexibility exists to accommodate different grounds and levels of play. Thus, selecting minimum
dimensions is not a compromise on standards, it is a use of the intended flexibility built into global
football law.
3.2.1 Developmentally, Minimum Fields Support Amateur & Youth Play
A. Skill Development for Youth
Smaller fields for grassroots play encourage:
 More touches per player
 Faster decision-making
 Greater engagement
 Increased tactical learning
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
4APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
These points echo Canada Soccer’s core developmental goals: maximizing “one-on-one encounters,
quick decision making, and final acts (goals, shots, crosses).”
B. Appropriate for Amateur & Recreational Play
Amateur players benefit from:
 Reduced physical strain
 Enhanced safety due to lower required stamina on smaller fields
 Increased availability of playtime because more fields can fit into constrained spaces
Minimum-sized pitches are standard in amateur leagues globally and do not detract from game quality.
Minimum Field Size
Non-International Matches International Matches
FIBA 90x45m 100x64m (major FIFA tournaments/World
Cup/ Olympics)
CONCACAF 90x45m 100x64m (Major CONCACAF competitions)
Canada Soccer 90x45m
BC Soccer 90x45m N/A
*All 4 organizations listed follow IFAB Law 1
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
5APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
3.3 Site Fit Layout A1: 55m Wide Field in Northwest
Figure 2 – Layout A1 Plan
Features include:
1. 110m x 61m Total Synthetic Turf Field Size with 100m x 55m Full Size Soccer
2. 55m x 47m Mini Soccer (U13 9v9) – 2 Fields
3. High-Mast LED Field Lighting
4. Goal Storage
5. Covered Player Benches
6. Covered Spectator Bleachers (Cover subject to partnership funding)
7. Pathway to existing field house and public washrooms
Opportunities:
1. Minimal impacts to existing conditions
2. Replaces existing gravel field currently in poor condition
3. No tree removals are required
4. Space for player shelters, goal storages, spectator areas
5. Opportunity for spectator seating on south side of field
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
6APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
6. Ability to utilize portions of existing sport field servicing infrastructure
7. Outside of ROW – Easement for the existing sanitary pipe
Constraints:
1. Full size soccer field width (55m vs. 64m)
2. No perimeter pathway on west & north sides of the field
3.4 Site Fit Layout A1: Section
Figure 3 - Layout A1 Section
Reviewing the section for Concept A, there will be some fill required for the north end of the site, and a
slight cut into the slope on the south end. For the north side of the field, a new swale can be added for
the interface between the existing slope and field, presenting another opportunity to manage the
stormwater from the field. See Appendix A for larger cross sections drawings.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
7APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
3.5 Site Test Fit Layout A2: 64m Wide Field in Northwest (Not Feasible)
Figure 4 – Test Fit Layout A2 Plan
Understanding a 64m wide field is the minimum regulation field width for FIFA international matches,
Binnie completed a test fit layout of a 64m wide field in the northwest.
We note the following constraints:
1. To the south, a significant cut into the slope is required, resulting in the need for a large and
costly retaining wall.
2. The field footprint and any proposed retaining wall structure will encroach into the existing
sanitary sewer right of way (ROW) and conflict with the sewer infrastructure itself. Right of ways
are kept clear to perform maintenance and to support safe utility operation and function of
critical infrastructure.
3. If the field is pushed north, drainage flows are cut off along the north edge and all established
trees there will require removal.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
8APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
4. The extent of the 64m wide field footprint in Figure 4 above is for the field footprint only. The
available topography does not allow for amenities such as the perimeter pathways, player
shelters, scorekeeper’s shelter, goal storage and spectator areas.
In summary, it is not feasible to construct a 64m wide field to replace the existing gravel field.
3.6 Site Fit Layout B: Alternative Location in Southwest
Figure 5 - Layout B Plan
Features include:
1. 110m x 70m Total Synthetic Turf Field Size with 100m x 64m Full Size Soccer
2. 64m x 30m Mini Soccer (U13 9v9) – 2 Fields
3. Goal Storage
4. Player Shelters
5. Spectator Area – two 5 Row Bleachers (150 total seats)
6. Pathway to existing field house and public washrooms
Opportunities:
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
9APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
1. Full size soccer field width of 64m
2. Space for player shelters, goal storages, spectator areas
3. Outside of ROW – Easement for the existing sanitary pipe
Constraints:
1. Significant impacts to existing conditions, affecting the slope and existing trees on the
north side. This will result in the loss of several trees and the need for significant retaining
walls.
2. Existing gravel field in poor condition remains. Upgrades to gravel field would come at a
significant cost to meet RainCity guidelines.
3. Loss of programming for existing Class ‘A’ grass soccer field and southwest ball diamond,
both of which are currently well-utilized.
4. Permitting process required for new location of high-mast sport field lighting (previously
in Northwest).
3.7 Site Fit Layout B: Section
Figure 6 - Layout B Section
Reviewing the section for Concept B, there will be a significant retaining wall required for the north end
of the site, and a cut into the slope on the south end. Several trees located at the north end of the site
would also require removal, which is not ideal given the objective of minimizing impacts to the existing
site conditions. See Appendix A for larger cross sections drawings.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
10
Enhance DitchesAPPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
4 UTILITY CONCEPT
4.1 Introduction
This section summarizes existing civil servicing conditions and preliminary servicing requirements for
the proposed conversion of the gravel field at Beaconsfield Park to a synthetic turf field. It consolidates
information from City of Vancouver sources (VanMap/Open Data), Park Board documents, Rain City
Strategy requirements, and typical design considerations for turf fields in Vancouver.
The purpose of this is to:
 Identify existing water, sanitary, and storm infrastructure surrounding the park.
 Assess servicing constraints and opportunities.
4.2 Site Overview
Currently the proposed development site is a flat gravel field an average elevation of 32m. The natural
grass field to the south has an approximate elevation of 38.5m.
There are trees along the north side of the gravel field and throughout the entire Beaconsfield Park site.
Refer to the previously conducted arborist report for further details and recommendation on tree
protection/removals if necessary.
The park is located within the Still Creek Watershed, an active area for the City's Green Rainwater
Infrastructure (GRI) initiatives. As such, enhanced rainwater management is expected to be a key
component of the redevelopment.
General Site Information
 Address: 3215 Slocan St Vancouver BC V5M 3E4
 Parcel Area: 44,420 m2
 Local Area: Renfrew-Collingwood
 Legal Description: LOT 3 BLOCK A SECTION 45 PLAN VAP15949 DISTRICT LOT THSL NWD
EXC PT IN EXP PLAN 15825
Design Guidelines
 City of Vancouver Sewer and Drainage Design Manual (Latest Edition)
 City of Vancouver Waterworks Design Manual (Latest Edition)
 Metro Vancouver – Drinking Water Management Plan / Water Transmission Guidelines
 MMCD (Master Municipal Construction Documents), Platinum Edition
 City of Vancouver Rainwater Management
4.3 Shallow Utilities
A review of existing underground services was completed through BC One Call prior to design and field
investigation. The review identified the presence of an underground BC Hydro secondary electrical line
located in the southwest corner of the site, as well as a live FortisBC natural gas service connection
servicing the onsite building. No records of underground telecommunications infrastructure were
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
11APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
identified within the project limits. All underground services should be verified in the field prior to
construction, and appropriate clearances and protection measures implemented where work is
proposed in proximity to existing utilities.
4.4 Waterworks
Existing Infrastructure
On the west side of the site within Penticton Street right of way there is an existing 150mm diameter
cast iron (CI) water main installed in 1948.
The nearest hydrant is located directly across the street in the frontage of 3191 Penticton Street.
Limitations
 Existing water servicing information is based on available records and has not been field
verified. The location, depth, invert elevations, size, material, and condition of existing
water infrastructure shall be confirmed in the field prior to construction, and any
discrepancies may require revisions to the proposed design.
Recommendations
A proposed water service can be provided from either the right of way on Penticton Street to the west
of the site or along the Slocan Street right of way between 16th and 17th Avenue as required.
4.5 Sanitary
Existing Infrastructure
There is a Metro Vancouver concrete sanitary main 1050mm in diameter that crosses Beaconsfield Park
from approximately the NE property corner through the midpoint of the west property line. There is
approximately 12m of separation from the nearest point (the SE corner) of the gravel field planned to
be converted to a synthetic field. Due to the relatively shallow depth of the sanitary main, the site fit
layouts have been intentionally designed to avoid the Right of Way and associated impacts to the line.
Limitations
 No sanitary servicing is anticipated as part of this project. Any existing sanitary
infrastructure is based on record information only and shall be confirmed in the field
prior to construction, including location, depth, size, condition, and invert elevations.
Recommendations
Currently there is an onsite washroom building near the middle of the east property line and it’s not
anticipated that another sanitary service be required for the proposed field at Beaconsfield Park.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
12APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
4.6 Stormwater
4.6.1 Existing Infrastructure
The nearest offsite storm infrastructure is at the intersection of Penticton St & E 16th Ave at the combined
sewer manhole. VanMap show a combined manhole with a lid elevation of 32.04m and an invert
elevation of 30.98m.
4.6.2 Rainwater Management Requirements
Beaconsfield Park falls under the City’s Rain City Strategy performance expectations for parks.
Key requirements include:
 48 mm rainfall capture and treatment onsite where feasible.
 80% TSS removal from rainfall runoff.
 Integration of Green Rainwater Infrastructure (GRI) such as:
 Bioswales / rain gardens
 Subsurface infiltration trenches
 On-site detention storage
Limitations
 Geotechnical investigations indicate shallow groundwater and low soil infiltration,
suggesting that the Rain City Strategy volume capture target of up to 48 mm is unlikely to
be achievable on site. Infiltration-based GRI measures will be constrained by saturated
subgrade conditions, and the proposed design will not fully meet the prescribed rainfall
capture volumes. The drainage strategy can, however, incorporate detention-based
controls to reduce peak runoff from the synthetic turf field. Shallow groundwater may also
limit conventional below-grade detention systems.
Recommendations
It has been confirmed that the new wetland feature within the park does not have the capacity to
receive runoff from the gravel field area. Due to this constraint, we recommend maximizing onsite
rainwater storage within the proposed work area and directing discharge to a manhole located
downstream of the wetland.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
13APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
4.6.3 Storm Servicing Concepts
Northwest Field Location – Drainage Panel System
For storm servicing, a drainage panel system (such as Ultrabase) or approved equivalent to convey
stormwater directly to storm collector pipes in lieu of a conventional field lateral drainage or infiltration-
based system. The panel drain system is designed to promote horizontal drainage and controlled
conveyance of runoff toward dedicated collector piping. Infiltration is not feasible at the site due to low
soil permeability and a high groundwater table, as identified in the geotechnical report; therefore,
traditional infiltration field systems are not suitable. The use of a drainage panel system allows
stormwater to be captured and routed within a shallower drainage profile, reducing excavation depth
while maintaining conveyance to the downstream storm network. As a result of the limited infiltration
capacity, this approach does not allow the site to achieve the volume capture and onsite performance
targets outlined in the City of Vancouver Rain City Strategy.
Figure 7 - Drainage Panel System
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
14APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
Northwest Field Location – Geocell System
A subsurface modular detention system (such as a Permavoid geocellular storage system or approved
equivalent) beneath the proposed field to provide onsite stormwater detention storage and controlled
discharge to the downstream storm network. The system can be designed to provide partial to full
detention volumes consistent with the performance objectives of the City of Vancouver Rain City
Strategy. While this approach would improve alignment with Rain City guidelines, it would require
increased design complexity and overall cost. Subject to confirmation with the City of Vancouver, the
detention storage volume may be varied to balance performance objectives and project budget, with
reduced storage corresponding to lower compliance with full volume capture targets.
Figure 8 - Geocell System
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
15APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
Southwest Field Location
If the alternative field location in the southwest was pursued, then the proposed synthetic turf field
drainage could tie into the constructed wetland storm water infrastructure. The challenge with this
approach is that it displaces current users on the south fields and leaves the northwest gravel field in
poor condition (see constraints in section 2.7). To accommodate user needs, significant storm water
upgrades would likely also be required in the northwest to meet RainCity Strategy requirements.
Figure 9 - Southwest Field Location
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
16APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
5 ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION MEASURES
Given the proximity of Still Creek—a locally significant fish-bearing watercourse—the use of
crumb-rubber infill is not being considered for the proposed synthetic turf field at Beaconsfield Park.
This decision is based on concerns regarding the potential leaching of 6PPD-quinone, a toxic compound
known to pose acute risks to coho salmon. In light of this sensitive environmental context, it is essential
that the facility design incorporates measures that minimize the migration of infill or other foreign
materials from the synthetic field into the surrounding natural environment, particularly the adjacent
watercourse.
Key design considerations include:
1. Selection of environmentally preferred infill materials that reduce the risk of chemical
leachate.
2. Implementation of infill-migration mitigation strategies, such as enhanced containment
systems, improved field edging, and optimized drainage design.
5.1 Synthetic Turf Infill Materials
EPDM:
 EDPM (Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer) is a
virgin synthetic rubber granule regularly used as infill
for synthetic turf sports field systems. EPDM offers
consistent elasticity, reliable shock absorption, and a
clean, uniform composition free from contaminants
found in recycled rubber alternatives such as SBR
crumb rubber. Featuring a wide variety of colours, the
UV-stable granules help reduce surface temperatures and maintain visual appeal over time.
EPDM infill is valued for its durability, low odor, and player comfort, making it a popular choice
for synthetic turf sports fields.
 Key Considerations
Higher cost compared to SBR rubber (recycled tire rubber).
o
Higher surface temperatures than organic infill options.
o
Over time, EPDM can break down to become a source of microplastic pollution,
o
although this can be mitigated by good containment measures.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
17APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
Organic Walnut (Safeshell):
 Organic walnut infill is a natural, biodegradable
material made from crushed and processed walnut
shells, used as an alternative to rubber infills in
synthetic turf sports field systems. It’s valued for its
ability to reduce surface temperatures and provide a
more natural feel underfoot. Walnut infill offers
consistent shock absorption, low dust, and good drainage performance. As it is an organic
product, it requires periodic moisture management to maintain optimal performance, but the
advantages are a more sustainable, low-odor, and environmentally friendly infill option
compared to traditional rubber infill materials.
 Key Considerations
Cost – Generally higher than other infill options.
o
Despite manufacturer’s assurances that detectable protein levels for nut allergies
o
are removed during the cleaning process, user concerns persist.
As an organic material there is potential for mold and mildew when fields are in
o
shady environments.
Abrasiveness – Hard ground nutshells are coarser than synthetic infills and users
o
have reported Safeshell infill to feel less cushioned.
Durability – while more durable than other organic infills, nutshells typically require
o
more annual maintenance than synthetic infills.
Envirofill:
 Envirofill is a synthetic turf infill made from rounded
sand coated with a durable acrylic layer, designed to
deliver long-lasting stability, cleanliness, and safety in
synthetic turf sports field systems. The coating includes
Microban antimicrobial protection, which helps prevent
the growth of bacteria, mold, and mildew. Envirofill
resists compaction, keeps turf blades standing upright,
and minimizes dust and odors, while maintaining
consistent playability over many years. As it’s non-toxic, low-maintenance, and reusable at the
end of a field’s life, Envirofill is often chosen as a clean, reliable, and environmentally conscious
alternative to traditional rubber infills.
 Key Considerations
Firmer feel than crumb rubber infill.
o
Higher cost compared to SBR rubber (recycled tire rubber).
o
Higher surface temperatures than organic infill options.
o
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
18APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
5.2 Infill Migration Prevention Measures
Infill Containment Trays:
 Infill containment trays are modular systems
installed at the entrances of a synthetic turf field to
help keep infill materials from migrating outside
the playing surface. These trays create a defined
edge that captures infill materials, preventing
them from spilling into walkways, drainage
systems, or surrounding landscapes. By holding
infill in place, they reduce maintenance needs,
minimize material loss, and most importantly,
prevent the migration of foreign substances into
local water courses. Containment trays are typically made from galvanized steel and integrate
with the field’s perimeter curb, making them a practical solution for both new installations and
field renovations.
Raised Concrete Curbs:
 Raised concrete curbs are a solution used around
the perimeter of synthetic turf fields to help
contain infill materials. By creating a solid vertical
barrier, these curbs limit infill from migrating into
surrounding walkways, drainage systems, or
landscaped areas. Raised concrete curbs are
typically 150mm in height, but heights may vary
depending on specific site conditions. Raised
concrete curbs are also very effective in guiding
site circulation by directing field users to specified
field entrances, which can help prevent large wear areas in highly travelled spots. This is a very
effective, low-maintenance method of keeping infill securely within the field boundaries.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
19APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
Perimeter Fencing Screens:
 Perimeter fencing screens are barriers installed
along the outer edge of synthetic turf fields to
help contain infill materials and prevent them
from escaping into surrounding areas. Typically
made from Vinyl Coated Polyester Mesh, these
panels are attached or hung onto the field’s
perimeter fence line. These screens act as a
vertical barrier that help prevent infill and
synthetic grass fibers kicked up during play or
maintenance from migrating away from the field.
Perimeter fencing screens are durable,
weather-resistant, and easy to integrate into new or existing facilities, making them a practical,
low-maintenance solution for infill containment.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
20APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
6 PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A field assessment was completed by a Qualified Environmental Professional on January 26, 2026 by a
representative from Blue Lines Environmental Ltd. The purpose was to evaluate and review
environmental features on the proposed site.
6.1 Still Creek Tributary
The field assessment identified a headwater tributary extending to the north Park boundary.
 The tributary is approximately 1m wide with minor flows observed.
 Channel and headwall improvements are currently under construction, forming part of
the adjacent wetland construction project.
 The tributary conveys flow eastward along Grandview Highway, and outfalls to Still Creek
east of Grandview Highway at Nootka Street.
 The proposed synthetic turf field project is not anticipated to impact the footprint of this
tributary.
 This tributary is preliminarily classified by Blue Lines as permanent, non-fish bearing.
 Still Creek, east of the site, is classified as fish bearing.
6.1.1 Streamside Protection Enhancement Area (SPEA)
As the Park development is classified as institutional, it is considered exempt for Riparian Setbacks. The
headwater channel is located offsite, therefore SPEA setbacks, if they were applicable, would not be cast
into the Park.
There are also no direct habitat impacts to aquatic or riparian habitat values with respect to the scope
of the proposed project.
6.1.2 Water Quality Impacts
Design of the synthetic turf field should follow the mitigation measures described in section 4 of this
report.
6.2 Regulatory Considerations
There are anticipated to be no permitting requirements for the project.
 BC Riparian Areas Regulation (RAPR) is not required and no SPEA setbacks are cast on the
site
 Water Sustainability Act / Regulation (WSA &WSR) are not required as the project does
not involve work within a regulated watercourse
 Department of Fisheries and Oceans Project Review is not required as there are no ‘works
near water’ such as riparian vegetation removal or instream works.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
21APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
6.2.1 Raptor and Bird Nest Mapping
A preliminary review for nesting birds was conducted. There were no nests observed at the time of the
field visit. There is no presence of mapped osprey and bald eagle nests in proximity to the site.
6.2.2 Species at Risk or Protected Species
In consultation with the Province of BC’s iMAPBC online mapping website, there are no known species
at risk or protected species habitat within the park site.
6.3 Construction Considerations
The following activities should be implemented during construction.
Vegetation removals including removal of trees and shrubs should be advanced prior to nesting season
(March 1st to August 31st) to mitigate impacts to nesting birds.
Any nesting activity, including ground nesting birds, should be reported to the project biologist.
The work area should be defined with temporary fencing to preclude machine and equipment
encroachment outside of the work zone.
An Erosion and Sediment Control (ESC) plan should be developed to mitigate construction impacts on
the receiving environment, in conjunction with regular ESC monitoring.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
22APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
7 GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION
Three recent geotechnical reports have been completed for Beaconsfield Park:
 Geotechnical review was conducted from Thurber Engineering LTD. for Green
Infrastructure Implementation – report dated March 29, 2021.
 Geotechnical review was conducted from Thurber Engineering LTD. for Green
Infrastructure Implementation – report dated May 19, 2023.
 Geotechnical review was conducted from Terrane Geotechnical Group for Proposed
Field Lighting – report dated April 23, 2025.
7.1 Subsurface Conditions
Both Terrane Geotechnical Group and Thurber Engineering Ltd. have engaged subsurface bore holes in
the vicinity of the lower gravel field and adjacent proposed wetland area. The upper field has not been
studied, but subsurface conditions likely mimic those of the lower field.
Terrane Geotechnical Group conducted a subsurface investigation on February 27, 2025, which
included drilling four bore holes adjacent to the proposed field lighting locations in the lower gravel
field. The test holes were complemented by Dynamic Cone Penetration Testing (DCPT)s. Subsurface
conditions were reported to generally consist of a surficial layer of silty sand topsoil material or ¾ inch
minus sand and gravel field material. Below the surficial fill, the natural soil material included
interbedded layers of silt, silty sand, and sand with traces of silt. Peat was encountered near the surface
of two test holes.
Thurber Engineering Ltd. conducted two geotechnical investigations, in February 2021 and May 2023,
respectively.
On February 4 and 5, 2021, Thurber completed subsurface investigation adjacent to the lower gravel
field (north and west side of gravel field). Thurber engaged three boreholes and undertook three
infiltration tests. Findings were consistent with the soil conditions encountered by Terrane.
On August 22 and 23, 2022, Thurber completed subsurface investigation. Thurber engaged one test
hole and installed one groundwater monitoring well in the proposed wetland, east of the lower gravel
field. Water levels were monitored continuously between August 25, 2022, and March 27, 2023.
The subsurface materials identified are considered typical for the area and generally suitable for the
proposed construction, subject to confirmation from a Geotechnical Engineer during field design and
subsequent construction. As peat is present on the site, some level of settlement can be expected. To
limit settlement, consideration could be given to using pumice.
Soil conditions may vary laterally across the site width and depth.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
23APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
Should the upper field be selected for the final location of the synthetic turf field, it is recommended to
engage further test holes in this area. No subsurface investigation has been conducted in this area to
date. Furthermore, in the lower field, we recommend conducting further test holes here to attempt to
quantify the extent of peat below the field surface.
7.2 Infiltration
Thurber Engineering conducted infiltration testing at the site. Two types of infiltration were assessed:
bioretention and sub-infiltration.
The site generally has poor infiltration due to the high- groundwater table.
Referencing the City’s Best Management Practice Toolkit – Table 5.1 Simplified Infiltration Criteria for
Selection of Design Type for Source Control
Figure 10 – Table 5.1: Simplified Infiltration Criteria for Selection of Design Type for Source Control Design
The site has low infiltration overall and may meet Criteria C of the Table.
A report determined that partial infiltration of a bioretention green infrastructure system was feasible
and recommended an outflow pipe to manage the subsurface water be included in the design. It should
be noted that infiltration was deemed not feasible at two other test pits nearby.
Shallow groundwater was found at Beaconsfield Park to be consistently less than 1m below the ground
surface and that would conflict with the Citys green infrastructure design guidance manual of maintain
0.6m between the bottom of the infiltration system and seasonally high groundwater table.
7.3 Groundwater Conditions
Groundwater was observed during previous investigations at shallow to moderate depths below
existing grade.
Water levels were monitored continuously between August 25, 2022, and March 27, 2023, by Thurber
Engineering Ltd. Thurber reports that shallow groundwater was consistently less than 1m below ground
surface (bgs). The available data suggests that the groundwater table is influenced by precipitation, and
the groundwater table could be as shallow as 0.3m bgs in the winter months during and after periods
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
24APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
of intense or prolonged precipitation. Thurber’s report indicates that the City may have placed their
own groundwater data loggers to continue long-term monitoring in the well.
The groundwater table is anticipated to fluctuate seasonally and in response to precipitation,
groundwater recharge. As such, groundwater levels at the time of construction may be higher than
those previously observed.
Temporary groundwater control measures may be required during excavation, depending on
excavation depth, time of year, and prevailing site conditions. Groundwater management, if required,
should be implemented in accordance with applicable environmental and regulatory requirements.
7.4 Soil and Groundwater Testing
In British Columbia, contaminated sites typically fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Environment, pursuant to the Environmental Management Act. Thurber completed a high-level
desktop review of known contaminated sites in the area.
There is no available data on the presence of contaminated soil or groundwater for the site, however,
AECOM or the successful contractor may have obtained this data during construction of the wetland.
Thurber Engineering completed a review of historical data on the Province’s.
7.5 Implications for Construction
The identified soil and groundwater conditions may influence excavation stability, temporary shoring
requirements, and construction sequencing. Appropriate excavation support and groundwater control
measures should be considered during detailed design and construction planning.
Thurber Engineering’s 2023 report recommends that excavation to the design subgrade elevation
should include removal of any fill or loose/soft, wet, organic or disturbed material, with excavation
overseen by a Geotechnical Engineer.
It is recommended that subsurface conditions and groundwater levels be further confirmed during
construction, and that a qualified geotechnical professional be consulted should conditions differ from
those described above.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
25APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
8 ARCHAEOLOGICAL OVERVIEW ASSESSMENT
An Archaeological Overview Assessment was conducted internally for Beaconsfield Park. The overview
assessed the area as low potential and no further archaeological work was recommended. Based on
these findings, it was determined that work on site can occur under the City of Vancouver’s Guidelines for
Archaeological Chance Find Management.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
26APPENDIX C
BEACONSFIELD PARK – SYNTHETIC TURF FIELD
VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEA SIBILITY REPORT
9 SUMMARY
In summary, this feasibility study finds that the northwest corner of Beaconsfield Park (gravel field)
would be feasible for a new synthetic turf field considering and addressing site fit constraints, drainage
and geotechnical challenges, and environmental impacts. The alternate site in the southwest could also
be considered feasible, but displaces many existing permitted users, requires the removal of several
mature trees and increases overall impacts and costs.
Park Board Meeting: March 30, 2026
27