Sen̓ áḵw Partnership Welcome Centre
The below is for information only. Minutes contain the official record of Board decisions.
~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Final motion
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT, in accordance with the Park By-laws, the Park Board approve a request by
Sen̓ áḵw (Building 1) Limited Partnership (the “Sen̓ áḵw Partnership” or “SP”), as the
representative of Squamish Nation, to place a temporary Welcome Centre in Vanier
Park pursuant to the terms of this report.
B. THAT Recommendation A does not become legally binding until the General Manager,
Vancouver Board of Parks & Recreation, in consultation with the Director of Legal
Services, is satisfied with the following:
i. the Sen̓ áḵw Partnership and the Park Board have settled the terms of an
amended Temporary Workspace Licence Agreement documenting the terms
and conditions for the Welcome Centre;
ii. if applicable, the Sen̓ áḵw Partnership complying with Metro Vancouver’s
“proximity requirements” whenever construction is proposed to be carried out
in proximity to one or more assets owned or operated by Metro Vancouver;
iii. no changes are required to the March 27, 2026, consent letter provided by the
Federal Government consenting to the placement of the temporary Welcome
Centre in Vanier Park and, if changes to the letter are required based on
changes by the Sen̓ áḵw Partnership to the design, location or duration of the
Welcome Centre, the Federal Government provides an amended consent letter
to the City, all in accordance with the terms of a 1966 lease by the Federal
Government to the City which enabled the creation of Vanier Park; and
iv. any other matter or legal document that may arise in the course of settling any
of the above; and
C. THAT the Board determine the licence fee to be imposed for the temporary commercial
use of park land for the Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre and, if so a reduced rate, with
delegated authority to the GM to negotiate, determine the amount or structure of a
licence fee below market rate; and
D. THAT, the General Manager, Vancouver Board of Parks & Recreation, be authorized
to negotiate and execute any legal agreement or document that may be necessary,
including the above, in order to give effect to these Recommendations.
Park Board Meeting – April 27, 2026