PARK BOARD MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
⎯ April 27, 2026 ⎯
The following information is intended to provide a brief overview of the Board’s governance work
at the Committee and Board meetings. The full agenda, meeting materials, video clips and official
minutes can be found on the Park Board website.
STAFF REPORTS / PRESENTATIONS
Senakw Partnership Welcome Centre
The Board approved the Senakw Partnership Welcome Centre report, which authorizes a request
by Senakw Limited Partnership, as the representative of Squamish Nation, to place a temporary
Welcome Centre in Vanier Park. The Board also approved that a license fee be imposed for the
temporary commercial use of park land at a reduced rate, with delegated authority to the General
Manager to negotiate and determine the amount or structure of a below market rate license fee.
2026 City of Vancouver Public Fireworks Celebration - Special Event
The Board approved the City of Vancouver to host the 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration at
English Bay Beach Park, as well as an application for a Special Event Permit from the BC Liquor
and Cannabis Regulation Branch to serve alcohol at the aforementioned location with a maximum
capacity of 100 guests. The event date is still under consideration and will be announced once
finalized. The event will be free and fully accessible to residents and visitors and is expected to
utilize a footprint and delivery model similar to the popular and long-standing Celebration of Light
Fireworks Festival that was cancelled indefinitely in November 2025.
CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Digby highlighted recent events attended by commissioners:
- Liaison Roles – Chair Digby – Chair Digby attended meetings with the Kerrisdale and
Champlain Heights Community Centre Associations, and the Sunset Community Centre
AGM.
- Dr. Sun Yat-Sen 40th Anniversary – Chair Digby, Councillor Orr and former Premier Mike
Harcourt attended the 40th Anniversary celebration of the Dr. Sun Yat-Sen Classical
Chinese Garden.
- SPES Earth Day – Chair Digby and Commissioners Bastyovanszky and Jensen attended
the Stanley Park Ecology Society’s Earth Day celebration in Stanley Park
- ECPC Earth Day – Chair Digby attended the Everett Crowley Park Committee Earth Day
celebration in Everett Crowley Park
- Earth Day Dinner – Commissioners attended the Earth Day Dinner at VanDusen Botanical
Garden with VSB Chair Jung.
- Sikh Heritage Month Proclamation – Commissioners Haer and Virdi attended the Sikh
Heritage Month Proclamation alongside City Councillors and School Trustees
- Tree Talks and Walk – Commissioner Jensen attended the Tree Talks and Walk at
Callister Park
- Kerrisdale Days Little League Parade – Commissioner Jensen attended the Kerrisdale
Days Little League Parade and spoke at the opening ceremony to kick off the 2026 season
- Park Visits – Comr. Jensen – Commissioner Jensen visited Pandora Park, Harbour Green
Park, and the playground beside the nearly completed new school in Coal Harbour.
Page 1 of 2 28-Apr-26GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
The General Manager presented an overview of the GM’s report:
- Memorial West Park Improvements – Staff highlighted improvements to the irrigation
system at Memorial West Park, which completed in early February to ensure the field
reopened by April 1, in time for the 2026 Little League season.
- Inclusive Playground Design – Public Engagement Launch – Public engagement will take
place from May 5 to May 26 and will include a Shape Your City webpage and online
survey, targeted outreach to inclusivity organizations, and on-site presence during the
Memorial South Park Centennial event on May 24.
- Special Events at Community Centres – Staff highlighted the special events hosted by
Community Centres, including outdoor movie nights, music in the park, community
festivals, Mother’s Day celebrations, and summer kick-off events.
- Community Youth Development 2025 Highlights - In 2025, CCAs delivered over 12,000
hours of open gym time and nearly 19,000 hours in games rooms, creating safe and
welcoming spaces where youth can stay active, build relationships, and feel connected to
their community. Youth also contributed nearly 16,000 volunteer hours, demonstrating
strong leadership, commitment, and a willingness to give back to their communities.
BOARD MOTIONS
Reaffirming Park Board Independence: Capital Planning for Park Board Assets
The Board approved the motion, which retains independent legal counsel to provide advice of the
jurisdiction of the Park Board to make Capital Plan allocations in public parks, and the scope of
City Council authority in this regard. The motion also approved that such legal counsel be drawn
from the remaining $20,000 allocation made by the Board at the January 22, 2024, meeting
regarding the motion titled “Independent Legal Advice for Judicial Review of Mayor’s Motion”
NEXT MEETINGS
The next Committee and Board meetings are scheduled for May 4, 2026
Page 2 of 2 28-Apr-26