MOTION on NOTICE
Submitted at the Regular Park Board Meeting on April 27, 2026
Reaffirming Park Board Independence: Capital Planning for Park Board Assets
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Christensen
WHEREAS
1. The mission and mandate of the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation is to provide,
preserve, and advocate for parks and recreation services to benefit all people,
communities, and the environment.
2. The Vancouver Charter grants the Park Board the legal capacity to exercise the powers
bestowed on it and to enforce those powers and the exercise thereof by actions,
proceeding or prosecution.
3. Under the Vancouver Charter, the Board has the exclusive possession of, and exclusive
jurisdiction and control of all areas designated as permanent public parks and temporary
public parks. This “includes the authority to determine how such real property shall be
used, [...], what improvements shall be made thereon, including the removal or demolition
of any existing improvements”.
4. On April 22, 2026, City Council passed a motion entitled “Back to Community: Establishing
Strategic Priorities and Consolidating Council Direction for the 2027–2030 Capital Plan”,
which directed staff to allocate funds within the 2027-2030 Capital Plan for the new
construction, renewal, or redevelopment of Park Board assets including community
centres, pools, spray parks, turf fields, and park washrooms.
5. It is unprecedented that Council has directed allocation of funding for assets under Park
Board jurisdiction prior to and without Park Board’s approval.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT the Board directs staff to continue with the Capital Plan process without regard to
the projects listed within the Council motion of April 22, 2026, and prioritize projects based
on already approved Park board plans, strategies, and previous Board directions;
B. THAT the Board retain independent legal counsel to provide advice on the jurisdiction of
Park Board granted under the Vancouver Charter to make Capital Plan allocations in
public parks, and to advise on the scope of City Council authority in this regard, if any; and
C. FURTHER THAT costs for such legal counsel be drawn from the remaining $20,000
allocation made by the Board at the January 22, 2024 meeting (Independent Legal Advice
for Judicial Review of Mayor’s Motion).
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2026