Report Date: April 17, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Director, Business Services
SUBJECT: Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT, in accordance with the Park By-laws, the Park Board approve a request by
Sen̓ áḵw (Building 1) Limited Partnership (the “Sen̓ áḵw Partnership” or “SP”), as
the representative of Squamish Nation, to place a temporary Welcome Centre in
Vanier Park pursuant to the terms of this report.
B. THAT Recommendation A does not become legally binding until the General
Manager, Vancouver Board of Parks & Recreation, in consultation with the Director
of Legal Services, is satisfied with the following:
i. the Sen̓ áḵw Partnership and the Park Board have settled the terms of an
amended Temporary Workspace Licence Agreement documenting the
terms and conditions for the Welcome Centre;
ii. if applicable, the Sen̓ áḵw Partnership complying with Metro Vancouver’s
“proximity requirements” whenever construction is proposed to be carried
out in proximity to one or more assets owned or operated by Metro
Vancouver;
iii. no changes are required to the March 27, 2026, consent letter provided by
the Federal Government consenting to the placement of the temporary
Welcome Centre in Vanier Park and, if changes to the letter are required
based on changes by the Sen̓ áḵw Partnership to the design, location or
duration of the Welcome Centre, the Federal Government provides an
amended consent letter to the City, all in accordance with the terms of a
1966 lease by the Federal Government to the City which enabled the
creation of Vanier Park; and
iv. any other matter or legal document that may arise in the course of settling
any of the above; and
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2026Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 2
C. THAT the Board determine the licence fee to be imposed for the temporary
commercial use of park land for the Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre and, if so [choose
one],
i. a licence fee at market rate per approved policy OR
ii. A reduced rate, with delegated authority to the GM to negotiate,
determine the amount or structure of a licence fee below market rate ,
OR
iii. No fee (Fee Waived)
D. THAT, the General Manager, Vancouver Board of Parks & Recreation, be
authorized to negotiate and execute any legal agreement or document that may
be necessary, including the above, in order to give effect to these
Recommendations.
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
The purpose of this report is to seek Board direction whether to amend Sen̓ áḵw Partnership’s
(SP) existing license relating to a small portion of Vanier Park to allow SP to engage in a
commercial use. Under the Park By-Laws, a commercial use requires Board approval. SP intends
to place a temporary Welcome Centre immediately adjacent the Sen̓ áḵw development, at the
corner of Chestnut Street and the new Sen̓ áḵw Lane for prospective residents.
The Board has already licensed to SP the area in question for a different temporary use while it
is constructing the Sen̓ áḵw development; however, the terms of the license do not contemplate a
commercial use and would require amendment.
BOARD AUTHORITY / PREVIOUS DECISIONS
Per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over parkland
use in the City of Vancouver (including any structures, programs and activities, fees, and
improvements within parks) and approves the use of all lands under its jurisdiction on such terms
as the Park Board may decide.
For an overview of past In Camera Board decisions and other correspondence related to the
Sen̓ áḵw development, please refer to the Sen̓ áḵw Development Overview – Board Briefing Memo
dated March 2, 2023
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Sen̓ áḵw is a residential development project on 10.5-acres of Squamish Nation land located on
Kits Point adjacent to Vanier Park. It is taking place on lands under the governance of the
Squamish Nation where city land use policies and regulations are not applicable. The
development ownership structure is a 50/50 partnership between Squamish Nation and OPTrust
(a major Canadian pension fund) for Phases One and Two (under construction). The Nation
retains 100% ownership of future Phases Three and Four, with development managed by the
Nation’s economic development arm Nch'ḵay̓ Development Corporation.
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 3
SP has requested approval to temporarily place three adjoined trailers and an external washroom
trailer for SP staff use in Vanier Park, at the corner of Chestnut Street and the new Sen̓ áḵw Lane,
for a Welcome Centre (Appendix A). The proposed uses for the Welcome Centre are set out in
the Discussion section below.
Since construction of the Sen̓ áḵw development began, SP has requested the temporary use of
relatively small and discrete sections of Vanier Park that are adjacent to the development for
purposes including equipment staging, utility access, and construction access. To grant these
uses, the Park Board used a standard form Temporary Workspace Licence Agreement (“TWSA”),
with agreed modifications to suit the needs of SP and the Park Board. Each time SP was approved
for a new use, the TWSA was subsequently amended. The same approach would be used here.
DISCUSSION
The proposed Welcome Centre (Figure 1) will have a canopy design with west coast finishes,
including wooden beams representative of Squamish Nation’s cultural forms. The building will be
elevated above ground with a welcoming open front and side ramp for accessibility.
Figure 1: Proposed Welcome Centre
SP advised staff that the Welcome Centre will be used to provide information to the public and
that anyone interested in renting a unit would be taken to a different location to begin the leasing
process. Staff believe that a key purpose for bringing the public into the Welcome Centre is to
promote the benefits of living at the development and that, notwithstanding any formal paperwork
or leasing process may be done in a different location, such as marketing or promotional activity
sufficiently constitutes a commercial use.
Given the lands are leased to the City by the Federal Government under a 1966 lease, and the
Welcome Centre’s proposed use falls outside the permitted use of this lease, the City obtained a
consent letter from Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC) on March 27, 2026
consenting to the temporary installation and use until December 31, 2029. Any changes by the
Sen̓ áḵw Partnership to the design, location and duration of the Welcome Centre from what has
been submitted to the City and Park Board may require further consent from the Federal
Government and an amendment to this consent letter. If such changes fall outside the scope of
what the Board has approved under this report, staff will come back to the Board for further
approval.
Business Terms
The primary business terms requiring Board direction through this report relate to the allowable
timeframe, the commercial use and the rate charged as discussed in this report.
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 4
As for the TWSA, the starting point was the Park Board’s standard form and an amendment was
made each time SP requested the temporary use of small, discrete areas of Vanier Park in
connection with their construction of the Sen̓ áḵw development. The proposed amendment for the
Welcome Centre would apply the same core terms and conditions as follows:;
− a clearly defined scope of permitted use, limited to the approved temporary works and
activities;
− Park Board Staff review and approval of detailed designs, drawings, and construction
activities in accordance with applicable Park Board and City standards;
− requirements to maintain public safety and minimize impacts on park access throughout
the term;
− environmental protection and tree management obligations, including replacement where
required;
− full de‑commissioning and restoration of the licensed area to Park Board standards at the
licensee’s sole cost; and
− insurance, indemnification, and performance security requirements, with the Park Board
retaining rights to address defaults or terminate the licence if necessary.
Timeframe
Staff recommend aligning the timeframe to that approved by PSPC, which is to allow the Welcome
Centre until December 31, 2029. Should SP wish to continue the Welcome Centre beyond that,
Board approval, and PSPC approval, would again be needed.
Commercial Use and Rate Charged
Typically, commercial requests for use of park space are charged the market rate – which reflects
compensation for the loss of public space as well as the value these spaces represent to the
proponents objectives. Based on the proposed commercial use of 3,084 square feet of parkland,
three potential rate structures have been identified for consideration. These options reflect varying
approaches to balancing market value, operational objectives, and broader public benefit or loss
of public benefit (i.e loss of public space). A hybrid structure that incorporates more than one
option (e.g. fee waiver in year one, reduced rate in year two, market rate in year three) is also
possible.
A. Market Rate – $25/sf
Represents the estimated commercial value of parkland, generating approximately
$77,100 annually under this proposal.
B. Reduced Rate – $10/sf
Reflects a discounted rate consistent with similar community-oriented or partnership
arrangements, balancing revenue generation with public or operational benefits,
generating approximately $30,840 annually under this proposal.
C. Fee Waiver – $0/sf
Full waiver of land lease fees in recognition of broader public, cultural, or strategic value
associated with the proposed use.
Under the Vancouver Charter, the Board has authority to determine what rate, if any, to charge
for different categories of persons. Examples of different categories could include private entities,
non-profits and Indigenous governments. Should the Board view Indigenous governments like
Squamish Nation as a distinct category, it can direct staff to charge a lower rate, waive the rate,
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 5
or some combination over the term of the license. There is no precedent guiding decision-making
related to fee setting for this proposal. However, the Board approved Comprehensive Fee-setting
Framework provides guidance on setting fees. This approach can be summarized as: those who
benefit from a public service should pay in proportion to the benefit received. To the extent that
there is direct benefit to the user, that user or user group should pay for that portion of the costs.
To the extent that there is indirect benefit to all in the community, taxpayers should pay that portion
of the costs.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Staff are seeking direction from the Board which rate option to charge given varying priorities.
There is no revenue currently being generated from this space. Revenues collected will be utilized
to cover staff costs related to the development of agreements and inspecting the proposed facility
construction. There may be an opportunity to direct excess revenues generated from this license
in 2026 and beyond; which staff propose be prioritized towards reconciliation initiatives.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Referral
The Welcome Centre proposal was referred to Squamish Nation, Musqueam Indian Band and
Tsleil-Waututh Nation on March 18, 2026. No comments have been received to date.
A separate referral was previously issued to all three Nations to initiate a collaborative park
planning process for Vanier Park. All three Nations have expressed interest in the planning
process. The Vanier Park plan is distinct and separate from work related to the Sen̓ áḵw
Development. This report, regarding the temporary Welcome Centre does not preclude or alter
that invitation to all three Nations on broader planning of Vanier Park.
Legal
Section 4(a)(i) of the Park By-Laws provides that “except with the permission of the Board, no
person shall, in any park, sell, offer to sell, or expose for sale any food, beverage, or article or
thing of any kind”. Staff have concluded that the Welcome Centre will be used for the marketing
and promotion of the Sen̓ áḵw development and that such activity sufficiently constitutes selling or
is an activity for which one of the aims is to make a sale.
S.488 of the Vancouver Charter authorizes the Board to determine (1) what fees or rental charges
may be imposed on the use of a park, and (2) set different fees and charges for different
categories of persons and activities.
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
The Sen̓ áḵw Partnership’s proposal involves a limited, temporary use of an already licensed area
of Vanier Park to support a Welcome Centre related to the Sen̓ áḵw development. Given the
temporary nature of the building, the existing licensing framework, and federal consent for the
proposed use, staff are supportive of the request.
Staff are seeking Board direction on whether to permit the proposed commercial use and on the
applicable licence fee. Subject to Board approval, staff will finalize an amendment to the existing
Temporary Workspace Licence Agreement for this purpose consistent with the Board’s direction
for a term ending December 31, 2029.
* * * * *
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 6
APPENDIX A
PROPOSED SENAKW WELCOME CENTRE
Figure 1: Site plan showing the proposed location of the Welcome Centre in relation to Tower 1
Figure 2: Floor plan, site section, and front elevation
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 7
Figure 3: Proposed exterior canopy design, Squamish cultural forms, and elevated seacan with west
coast finishes
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025Temporary Sen̓ áḵw Welcome Centre at Vanier Park Page 8
Figure 4: Front elevation, rear elevation, right-side elevation, left-side elevation
Figure 5: Ceiling build up, floor build up, wall build up
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2025