Report Date: April 17, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Director, Business Services
SUBJECT: 2026 City of Vancouver Public Fireworks Celebration – Special Event
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve an application from the City of Vancouver
to host the 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration at English Bay Beach Park with all
arrangements to the satisfaction of the General Manager of the Park Board.
B. THAT the Park Board approve an application from the City of Vancouver for a
Special Event Permit from the BC Liquor & Cannabis Regulation Branch to serve
alcohol at the aforementioned location with a maximum capacity of 100 guests.
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
The 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration is a new, one-night fireworks event proposed by the City
of Vancouver to take place at English Bay Beach Park in Summer 2026. The event date is still
under consideration and will be announced once finalized. The event will be free and fully
accessible to residents and visitors and is expected to utilize a footprint and delivery model similar
to the popular and long-standing Celebration of Light Fireworks Festival that was cancelled
indefinitely in November 2025.
The purpose of this report is to present the 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration to the Board, seek
Board approval for this application, and authorize the General Manager of the Park Board to
approve the detailed event terms/conditions.
BOARD AUTHORITY AND PREVIOUS DECISIONS
Per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over all areas
designated as permanent and temporary parks in the City of Vancouver, including any structures,
programs and activities, fees, and improvements that occur within those parks.
As informed by the Guidelines for Special Events, the Special Events Policy (2003), as well as
current practices, the Park Board reviews and approves new major special events, as well as
significant changes or revisions to existing major special events.
On October 19, 2020, the Park Board approved the VanPlay Framework, for Vancouver’s Parks
and Recreation Services Master Plan. VanPlay sets out priorities and provides tools and policies
to support the pursuit of equity, connectivity, and access to parks and recreation for all. The
Framework provides a succinct method for referencing and implementing VanPlay directions. The
2026 Public Fireworks Celebration supports and aligns with VanPlay’s directions to “Welcome
Everyone”, “Weave the City Together” and “Deliver Services Equitably”.
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 20262026 City of Vancouver Public Fireworks Celebration – Special Event Page 2
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Celebration of Light Fireworks Festival
In November 2025, the Vancouver Fireworks Festival Society announced the indefinite
cancellation of the Celebration of Light fireworks event after rising production and operating costs,
loss of federal funding, reduced provincial support, and declining private sponsorship, made the
multi-night event financially unsustainable.
Following the cancellation announcement, the Mayor of Vancouver publicly expressed
disappointment over reductions in senior-government funding and affirmed the City’s willingness
to explore ways to ensure Vancouverites can continue to enjoy a major summer fireworks
celebration.
City Council Motion
Following the indefinite cancellation of the Celebration of Light fireworks event, Vancouver City
Council passed a motion on February 4, 2026, directing staff to plan and deliver a one-night City-
enabled public fireworks event to be held in Summer 2026. City Council also approved the
allocation of up to $2,000,000 from City reserves, contingency funds, and/or other available
sources to support the delivery of the one-night fireworks event.
Following City Council’s February motion, staff have initiated preparations for a one-night public
fireworks event and undertaken initial coordination with public safety agencies and key delivery
partners to confirm event requirements, footprint, and viable date options. This work is
progressing, however, given the already compressed summer event calendar, peak seasonal
demand on citywide resources, and additional pressures associated with hosting FIFA World Cup
2026, staff are carefully assessing potential event date and operational feasibility.
2026 Public Fireworks Celebration
The 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration is a one-night fireworks display in English Bay that will be
fully open and accessible to residents and visitors free of charge. While detailed event planning
stills needs to be completed, it is anticipated that this initiative will be delivered in a similar manner
to the longstanding Celebration of Light event, albeit with less complexity.
Event Location
The proposed event site, English Bay Beach Park, was selected in consultation with the FEST
Committee due to its scenic backdrop, ease of public access, and many years of well-established
precedents from previous Celebration of Light fireworks events.
DISCUSSION
Event Proposal
As enablers of the 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration, the City of Vancouver is seeking approval
to deliver a free and accessible one-night fireworks event at English Bay Beach Park in Summer
2026 (date to be determined). While more detailed event planning is still required, this initiative is
expected to follow a delivery model similar to that of the longstanding Celebration of Light event,
albeit with less features. While the initiative is expected to include a modest lounge space with
alcohol service on the bathhouse rooftop and a small selection of food trucks, the event will not
include a drone show, the Inukshuk Lounge hosting space, large grandstand seating, or
activations in Morton Park and adjacent spaces.
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 20262026 City of Vancouver Public Fireworks Celebration – Special Event Page 3
Since the City of Vancouver does not directly produce events and given the already compressed
timelines alongside a demanding summer schedule, production and operational planning for the
2026 Public Fireworks Celebration will be outsourced to a qualified team with demonstrated
experience in delivering large-scale public events and navigating City processes. Staff are
currently working with the City’s Supply Chain Management Department to finalize the scope of
work and contract deliverables, and as of April 13, have issued a Notice of Intent to Contract
(NOITC) signaling the City’s intent to engage the BrandLive Group as their production partner.
BrandLIVE is a Vancouver-based event production company with extensive local experience
delivering major public events, including over a decade as they primary delivery partner for the
Celebration of Light fireworks event and working with key event stakeholders. This approach is
expected to enable the efficient use of existing operational plans and leveraging of relationships
required as a result of the shortened planning window.
Consistent with its mandate, the Vancouver Park Board will continue to act as facilitator and
regulatory body rather than event producer. Park Board staff will be responsible for permitting,
oversight, and ensuring public safety requirements are met, while the detailed logistical planning,
execution, and event funding will be managed by the City of Vancouver and BrandLive.
This event will be supported by the FEST Committee as well as the FWC26 Host Committee,
subject to Board approval and development of the requisite operational plans.
Event Set-Up/Tear-Down
Set-up for the 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration is expected to require up to 2 days; tear down
is anticipated to be completed within 2 days of event delivery.
Event Benefits
The 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration is expected to play an important role in building community
connections and civic pride and provide an opportunity for Vancouverites and visitors to enjoy a
shared cultural experience without financial barriers.
Staff recognize that sensitivities and concerns exist when access to public spaces is restricted,
and as a result, consider all requests of this nature very carefully. Staff are supportive of pursuing
this initiative due to its marquis nature and the meaningful benefits that would accrue to the public,
the Park Board, and community stakeholders. These include:
- Large scale engagement of residents and visitors through a popular event concept;
- Building and strengthening of community connections and civic pride through shared
participation in a cultural experience without financial barriers;
- Collaboration and support for local suppliers and partners;
- Promotion of Vancouver as a destination for tourism, support for long-term economic
activity, and enhancement of the City's reputation; and
- Filling of a noticeable gap in Vancouver’s summer events calendar, created by the recent
cancellation of the long-standing Celebration of Light event, during the peak tourism
season when the City will be welcoming an elevated numbers of visitors and international
visibility.
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 20262026 City of Vancouver Public Fireworks Celebration – Special Event Page 4
KEY CONSIDERATIONS
Financial Impacts
All expenses related to the delivery and execution of this event will be borne by the event
organizer; accordingly, there will be no costs to the Park Board related to this initiative.
Beach and Park Access
The event organizer will develop a plan to minimize disruptions to public access to English Bay
Beach Park and maintain/share access as long as it is safe and operationally possible to do so.
Unlike the multi-day Celebration of Light fireworks event, which included large grandstand seating
areas, the Inukshuk Lounge, a drone show and activations at Morton Park and adjacent areas,
the required set-up/tear-down time for the 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration will be much shorter
(4 days) resulting in significantly less impact to public beach and park space access.
Neighbourhood Notification and Communication
The organizer of the event will be required to prepare and deliver a communication strategy/plan,
including timely delivery of neighbourhood notification to surrounding residents and businesses
in consultation with the FEST Committee.
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
With the cancellation of the longstanding Celebration of Light fireworks event, the City of
Vancouver’s 2026 Public Fireworks Celebration presents an exciting opportunity to deliver a
popular fireworks event to Vancouver residents and visitors. Through its delivery, this free and
fully accessible event will showcase the City’s premier waterfront spaces and contribute to the
City’s cultural, tourism, and economic vibrancy during a period of elevated visitation and
international visibility.
Park Board staff have carefully considered the various aspects of this application and are
confident that this initiative can be executed successfully and as intended. Accordingly, staff
recommend that the Board approve this application as outlined above.
* * * * *
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 20262026 City of Vancouver Public Fireworks Celebration – Special Event Page 5
APPENDIX A
Preliminary Site Concept/Layout
Figure 1: Site Plan at English Bay Beach on Shore
Figure 2: Site Plan at English Bay Beach on Water
Park Board Meeting: April 27, 2026