SPECIAL BOARD/COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
MEETING MINUTES
Monday, April 13, 2026 at 5:02pm
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) met in room 114 (the Boardroom), VSB Education
Centre, 1580 West Broadway, Vancouver, B.C. on Monday, April 13, 2026 at 5:02 pm. The meeting was live-
streamed.
Trustees Present: Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Janet Fraser, Vice-Chairperson
Lois Chan-Pedley (arrived at 5:15pm)
Alfred Chien
Suzie Mah (arrived at 5:01pm)
Jennifer Reddy (on Teams)
Trustees Absent with Regrets: Preeti Faridkot
Christopher Richardson
Joshua Zhang
Senior Team Members Present: Helen McGregor, Superintendent
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
Pedro da Silva, Associate Superintendent
Maureen McRae-Stanger, Associate Superintendent
Janis Myers, Associate Superintendent
Alison Ogden, Associate Superintendent
Lorelei Russell, Executive Director, Finance
Michael Gray, Executive Director, Employee Services
Jessie Gresley-Jones, Executive Director, Facilities
Patricia MacNeil, Director of Communications
Also Present: Judy Mah, Executive Coordinator (recorder)
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1. Indigenous Land Acknowledgement
The Chairperson called the meeting to order. She acknowledged that with deep gratitude and respect,
we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) & səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh
Nation).
1.2. Opening Remarks
On behalf of the Board, the Chairperson acknowledged the recent loss of Musqueam elder and
knowledge keeper, Shane Pointe and extended her condolences to the Musqueam community, and his
family and friends.
The Chairperson announced that the meeting was being live-streamed, and the audio and visual
recording would be available to the public for viewing after the meeting. The footage of the meeting
could be viewed inside and outside of Canada. She reviewed meeting decorum for respectful behavior.
Special Board / Committee of the Whole Page 1 of 3
Meeting MinutesShe acknowledged the four trustees who were present in-person at the Education Centre and noted
that Trustee Reddy had joined the meeting on Teams. She informed the Board that Trustee Richardson
was unable to attend the meeting but was viewing the meeting via the live broadcast.
The Chairperson welcomed meeting participants and invited those present to introduce themselves and the
association that they are representing. Following introductions, she expressed her appreciation for the
support and input received from inherent rights holders, interest holder groups and association stakeholder
representatives during 2026-2027 financial plan engagement process to date.
2. MOTION TO DISSOLVE THE BOARD MEETING INTO THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Moved by S. Mah, seconded by J. Fraser, that the Board dissolve itself into the Committee of the Whole.
The Chairperson asked if there were any trustees not in support of the motion. There being none, the
motion was
APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY
3. PRESENTATIONS ON THE DRAFT 2026-2027 FINANCIAL PLAN
The Chairperson reviewed the Procedure for Presentations to the Board, noting that the information was
also detailed on the overhead presentation slide.
Representatives of the District Parent Advisory Council and the Vancouver Elementary Principal and Vice-
Principal Association notified the Board that they would be observing the meeting proceedings and would
not be making presentations on behalf of their respective associations at this session. Written submissions
were received from the International Union of Operating Engineers and the Vancouver Elementary and Adult
Educators’ Society and retained for the Board’s records. Presentations from the Vancouver District Students’
Council and the Vancouver Secondary Teachers’ Association had also been included in the master
presentation that was presented at the meeting.
At the meeting, the following representatives shared feedback from their organization on the Draft 2026-
2027 Financial Plan:
1. Freddie Zhang, Jelleen Malit and Salena Sharma, Vancouver District Students’ Council
The Chairperson acknowledged that Trustee Chan-Pedley had joined the meeting at 5:15 pm.
2. Suzette Magri and Russell Green, Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 15
3. Angela Waterlow and Celena Benndorf, District Parent Advisory Council
The Chairperson acknowledged that representatives from the International Union of Operating Engineers
could not be present but had submitted a written submission which had been included in the meeting
agenda.
4. Angela Haveman and Benita Kwon, Vancouver Association of Secondary School Administrators
5. Stephen Leung and Deena Kotak Buckley, Vancouver Elementary Principal and Vice-Principal
Association
6. Jody Polukoshko and Rob McGowan, Vancouver Elementary and Adult Educators’ Society
The Chairperson welcomed DPAC representative, Celena Bendorff to the meeting at 5:49pm.
7. Carl Janze and John Silver, Vancouver Secondary Teachers’ Association
Following each presentation, trustees asked questions and stakeholder representatives provided
clarification on various points of their presentation.
The Chairperson reminded presenters who had not yet submitted their presentation slides or speaking notes
to send them to the Secretary Treasurer’s Office so they can be shared with the Board.
Special Board / Committee of the Whole Page 2 of 3
Meeting Minutes4. MOTION TO RISE FROM THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE AND RECONVENE THE BOARD MEETING
Moved by S. Mah, seconded by A. Chien, that the Board rise from the Committee of the Whole and
reconvene the Board meeting.
The Chairperson asked if there were any trustees not in support of the motion. There being none, the motion
was
APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY
5. ADJOURNMENT
Trustees agreed to adjourn by consensus.
T he meeting adjourned at 5:59 pm.
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Special Board / Committee of the Whole Page 3 of 3
Meeting Minutes