PARK BOARD MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
⎯ April 13, 2026 ⎯
The following information is intended to provide a brief overview of the Board’s governance work
at the Committee and Board meetings. The full agenda, meeting materials, video clips and official
minutes can be found on the Park Board website.
STAFF REPORTS / PRESENTATIONS
Electric Commuter Ferry Service Adjacent Harbour Green Park
The Board approved the Electric Commuter Ferry Service with amendments. This report endorses
the concept of changes to Harbour Green Dock to enable a commercial electric foot passenger
ferry service to operate at the site and supports City staff to negotiate and enter into an agreement
with CRQL Ferries Inc. to deliver the services and amenities. The Board also requested
negotiations for an appropriate revenue share with City Engineering to share with Park Board the
revenue the city receives from the service, ideally 50% of any city proceeds.
Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan
The Board approved the Burrard Slopes Park Concept Plan. The project’s design concept
includes new greenspace, 90 new trees, accessible paths, a new dog off leash area, a new
skateboard/small wheels spot, expanded biodiversity plantings, and a new washroom. Detailed
design for Burrard Slopes Park will begin in Q2 2026. Construction is expected in two phases,
with Phase 1 construction targeted from Q4 2027 to Q2 2029 for partial opening, and Phase 2
construction from Q4 2029 to Q3 2030 to complete the park. Burrard Slopes Park will provide
much needed greenspace and is designed to be inclusive and ecologically healthy.
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
The Board approved the South Vancouver Park Amenities Concept Plans with amendments at
Moberly Park and Ross Park. At Moberly Park the approved concept plan includes a synthetic
turf field, a fieldhouse, an accessible walking loop, and terraced spectator seating. At Ross Park,
the approved concept plan includes a spray park, renewed playground, and new washroom
building, with the provision of a future small meeting/community room to be implemented when
funding becomes available situated adjacent to the washroom facilities provide a safe, enclosed,
weather-protected environment to support year-round social activities. Construction of these
amenities are targeted to begin in Q1 2027 and be completed in 2028, depended on favourable
weather conditions for the completion of some features. The public will be notified of project
progress through onsite signage, project webpage and emails to community groups and interest
holders that were identified during the public engagement process.
VanPlay Implementation – 2025 Update
The Board received a presentation regarding the 2025 VanPlay Implementation Update, outlining
the implementation updates, highlights, and key takeaways. The presentation highlighted policies
approved in 2025 to support decision-making, including the Parking Policy, Golf Services Review,
Comprehensive Fee-Setting Framework, and the integration of parks and recreation policies in
the Vancouver Official Development Plan prepared by City of Vancouver staff. Staff continue to
advance VanPlay Playbook initiatives that align with Board priorities, with the strongest focus on
delivering projects and programs, and advancing policy in support of Park Board’s financial
sustainability.
Page 1 of 3 16-Apr-26CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Digby highlighted recent events attended by commissioners:
- Liaison Roles – Chair Digby – Chair Digby attended meeting with he Association Presidents
Group, Vancouver City Planning Commissioner, Britannia Community Centre Association, and
Dr. Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese Garden Society
- Season Opener at Trout Lake Little League – Chair Digby attended the opening of the Trout
Lake Little League season with Minister Dix and Former Commissioner Aaron Jasper
- Pickleball at Jericho – Chair Digby learned to play pickleball at the Jericho Courts
- WPG Lawn Bowling Club Tour – Chari Digby attended a tour of the West Point Grey Lawn
Bowling Club at Trimble Park
- Chair Meetings – Chair Digby communicated the Board’s Think 50 Metres motion to all local
Federal MPs and MLAs, and met with City Councillors to discuss the 2027-2030 Capital Plan
motion passed on April 7
- Moberly Park Visit – Commissioners Haer and Virdi visited the site for the new turf field at
Moberly Park
- Park Visits – Comr. Jensen – Commissioner Jensen visited various parks since the last Park
Board meeting.
- Park Visits – Comr. Bastyovanszky – Since the last Park Board meeting, Commissioner
Bastyovanszky visited Nat Bailey Stadium and Ross Park.
- Lunar New Year – Commissioner Haer attended Lunar New Year celebrations, welcoming in
the Year of the Fire Horse
- Italian Canadian Sports Federation Gala – Commissioner Haer attended the Italian Canadian
Sports Federation and Columbus FC Gala and Awards Night
- Remembering Dr. Setty Pendakur – Commissioner Haer attended a memorial for Dr. Setty
Pendakur
- Equip Sport Launch – Commissioner Virdi attended the media announcement for the Equip
Sport free sports lending equipment stations
- Harold Johnson Memorial – Commissioner Haer attended a recent memorial for Howard
Johnson.
- Community Dinner of Remembrance – Commissioner Haer attended the Community Dinner of
Remembrance in recognition of the tragic events of Lapu-Lapu Day
- Lapu-Lapu Day Memorial Mass – Commissioner Virdi attended memorial mass at St. Andrews
Church, held for victims of the Lapu-Lapu Day tragedy
- 2026 State of the City – Commissioner Haer attended Mayor Sim’s State of the City address
- Sakura Days Japan Fair – Chair Digby attended the Sakura Days Japan Fair at VanDusen
Botanical Garden
- Vaisakhi Parade 2026 – Commissioners attended Vaisakhi at the Khalsa Diwan Temple on
Ross Street, and the Vaisakhi Parade and celebrations along the route.
Page 2 of 3 16-Apr-26GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
The General Manager presented an overview of the GM’s report:
- Jonathan Rogers Park Improvements – Public Engagement for the park renewal will take
place from April 14 to May 3. Engagement activities will include an on-site popup event on
April 18, a Shape Your City page and online survey, postcards and onsite signage.
- Senior Scooter Rodeo – On March 6 Killarney Community Centre Collingwood Community
Policing Centre offered the annual Scooter Rodeo for older adults. Geared towards
transportation, mobility and safety, the event is centred around an obstacle course where
participants ride a provided mobility scooter through a maze of traffic cones.
- Council to receive a report on April 14, 2026 titled “2026 Cultural Grants (Balance of
Operating, Cultural Spaces)”
- Council to receive a report on April 14, 2026 titled “Vancouver Community Sport Events
Grants – Spring 2026 Intake”
- Council to receive a report on April 14, 2026 titled “Coastal Flood Management Policy”
NEXT MEETINGS
The next Committee and Board meetings are scheduled for April 27, 2026
Page 3 of 3 16-Apr-26