SOUTH VANCOUVER
PARK AMENITIES
Concept Plan
Park Board Committee Meeting
Monday, April 13, 2026Purpose of Presentation
▪ The purpose of this presentation is:
• To provide background and detailed information on the
proposed concept plans for Moberly Park and Ross Park
Amenities
• To share results of the public engagement process
• To seek a Board decision on the proposed concept plans to
advance detailed design followed by construction
2Background – Context Information
The neighbourhood surrounding
Moberly Park and Ross Park is an Equity
Initiative Zone based on two key indicators
of tree canopy gaps and high demand for
low barrier recreation services Ross
Park
Walter Moberly
Elementary
Moberly Park
3Moberly Park Background – Context Information
The Sport Field Strategy,
Big Move #5, prioritizes the Ross Park
North Field
development of a field
hockey specific pitch in
South Vancouver.
Walter Moberly
Elementary School
The 2024 South Vancouver
Park Amenities Board
decision identified Moberly
Playground
Park as the location.
Moberly Park
South Field
The Moberly Park concept
plan contributes to a
vibrant and inclusive
park that supports field
hockey and other
Moberly Arts &
Community Garden Tennis Courts
recreational activities. Culture Centre
4Moberly Park Amenities - Concept Plan
5
Wading pool looking westMoberly Park Reference Images
6Ross Park Background – Context Information
Improvements at Ross Park
are in response to 2023 and
2024 Park Board Motions on
the provision of park
amenities in South
Vancouver.
The Ross Park concept plan
replaces aging features and
improves recreational
amenities by creating
a recirculating spray park,
renewed playground and
new washroom building in
support of a growing and
diverse neighbourhood.
7Ross Park Concept – Site Plan
8
Wading pool looking westRoss Park Reference Images
9
Wading pool looking westPublic Engagement
2023 2025
Additional Public
Sunset Neighourhood Engagement Public Information Sessions
Outreach
High level support received Two public information sessions with around
during community engagement, 70 attendees and hosted Moberly Park
with stated priorities for: at the following organizations:
A preview of the Moberly field
▪ New synthetic turf field ▪ Moberly Arts and Cultural Centre and fieldhouse concept
shared with field hockey user
▪ Walking loops ▪ South Vancouver Neighbourhood House groups in March 2026.
(SVNH)
▪ Playground Ross Park
David Thompson Secondary
▪ Open/natural grass area
students, participating in an
initiative run by Mela City
funded by the City's Building
Safer Communities Project at
SVNH, shared their visions for
the park.
10Financial Considerations
Approved Funding
Project Total Project Costs
Source
Moberly Turf Field and Fieldhouse Growing Communities Fund $13.6M
Ross Spray Park and Washroom
Growing Communities Fund $4.2M
Building
Additional Park Amenities (Ross Park
Capital Plan - existing
playground renewal and Moberly Park $0.8M
accounts
walking loop)
TOTAL $18.6M
Operating Costs for Moberly Park Amenities
General maintenance costs for synthetic turf fields can reach up to $60K annually, excluding hard asset repairs (e.g.
fencing, drainage, asphalt etc.). Should the project be approved, the operation budget would require a one-time cost for
specialized maintenance equipment acquisitions estimated at $75K.
Operating Costs for Ross Park Amenities
The initial estimate for the operating impacts to capital budget is calculated as 5% of the estimated project construction
cost or $85K per year upon project completion.
11Project Timeline and Next Steps
Q3 2024 Project Initiation
Q3 2025 Concept Design
Q4 2025 Public Information Sessions
Q2 2026 Park Board Decision on Concept Plans
Q2 2026 Detail Design
Q1 2027 Construction Start target date
Q1 2028 Construction Completion target date
​Next Steps:
• Secure Development and Building Permits for sport lighting and buildings
• Explore innovative contracting opportunities to potentially help shorten the overall project timeline
• Notify public through onsite signage, project webpage and emails
12Recommendations
A. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for
the Moberly Park amenities including a new synthetic turf field, a new fieldhouse
and a new walking loop as described in this report.
B. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for the
Ross Park amenities including a new spray pad, a new washroom building and
playground renewal as described in this report.
13