Report Date: April 4, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: General Manager, Board of Parks and Recreation
SUBJECT: South Vancouver Park Amenities - Concept Plans
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for the Moberly
Park amenities including a new synthetic turf field, a new fieldhouse and a new walking
loop as described in this report.
B. THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for the Ross
Park amenities including a new spray pad, a new washroom building and playground
renewal as described in this report.
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
The proposed park amenity improvement concept plans described for Moberly Park and Ross
Park are in response to previous Park Board decision on South Vancouver Park Amenities in June
2024.
The purpose of this report is to provide an overview of the projects and public information session
process, and to seek a Board decision on the concept plans for the Moberly Park and Ross Park
Amenities (See Figure 1 & 2) before these projects can proceed to detailed design .
POLICY, REPORTS & STRATEGIES
Board Authority
As per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over all areas
designated as permanent and temporary parks in the City of Vancouver, including any structures,
programs and activities, fees, and improvements or major changes that occur within those parks.
The Vancouver Park Board approves major changes in Vancouver parks including the design and
development of parks. Permanent Park designation has been assigned to both Moberly Park and
Ross Park.
Previous Board Decisions
On December 5, 2022 the Park Board directed staff to initiate planning in Q1 2023 for a new
synthetic turf sports field in southeast Vancouver, ideally to be located at Moberly School or Ross
Park.
On May 29, 2023 the Park Board directed staff to undertake a community engagement process
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 2
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
in the Sunset neighbourhood to seek feedback that identifies the desired outdoor amenities for
the community. On December 11, 2023, staff reported back to the Board with the findings of the
Sunset community engagement results.
On October 30, 2023, The Board approved the motion for “An Inclusive Children's Water Park at
Ross Park - Bridging the Gap in an Underserved Neighborhood,” which directed staff to begin the
engagement and design process for this spray park. The Province of British Columbia’s Growing
Communities Fund (GCF) was identified as the funding source and staff were further instructed
to report back to Park Board and City Council regarding scope, cost and delivery timelines for the
project.
On June 24, 2024, The Board approved the South Vancouver Park Amenities. Following this
decision staff began project planning. Consultant teams have since been engaged and tasked
with design for both Moberly Park and Ross Park amenities projects.
On September 19, 2025 the Sports Field Projects – Update Board briefing memorandum was
distributed. The memo indicated that the Moberly Synthetic Turf Field will be lined exclusively for
field hockey, following International Field Hockey Federation regulations. This approach is
supported by key field hockey and soccer user groups as represented by the Vancouver Field
Sport Federation (VFSF). The VFSF confirmed that short pile turf is unsuitable for youth soccer
games, therefore youth soccer field lining is not required.
City Council Motions
On July 26, 2023, City Council approved an initial multi-year capital budget and funding
adjustment for City projects identified in the provincial Growing Communities Fund (GCF). Council
directed staff to include Parks within the priorities for the initial GCF grant, and that a portion be
used to fund a new synthetic turf field at Moberly Park and a spray park at Ross Park, both of
which have been identified as a priority by the South Vancouver community, with further direction
that staff conduct the appropriate analysis and report back to Council regarding the scope, cost
and delivery timelines for these projects.
On October 18, 2023, Council approved an allocation of $10 million from the GCF that included
a synthetic turf field at Moberly Park and a spray park at Ross Park among other projects. Council
also directed staff to report back with scope and detailed costing information for the field at
Moberly Park and spray park at Ross Park projects in 2024.
On July 23, 2024, Council approved 2023-2026 Capital Mid-Term Update (MTU) that included
funding allocations from the GCF for costs associated with the delivery of new fieldhouses at both
Moberly Park and Ross Park.
Related Park Board and City-wide Strategies and Policies
The proposed concept plans for Moberly Park and Ross Park Amenities are supported by
principles outlined in the following Park Board plans and strategies. For descriptions and
relationship to Moberly and Ross Parks, see Appendix C: Related Park Board and City-wide
Strategies and Policies.
- VanPlay (2019/2020)
- VanSplash (2019)
- Urban Forest Strategy (Updated 2025)
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 3
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
- Water Priority Action Plan (2023)
- Vancouver Sport Field Strategy (2024)
- Parks Washroom Strategy (2020)
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Moberly Park and Ross Park are designated permanent neighbourhood parks serving the Sunset
community in South Vancouver, a culturally diverse and family-oriented area with approximately
36,500 residents, representing 6% of the population in the city. With Vancouver projected to add
tens of thousands of new residents over the coming decades, many through incremental
densification in established community like Sunset. The land use surrounding Moberly and Ross
Parks is predominately low density residential, characterized by single-family homes with
secondary suites and multiplex infill, contributing to consistent neighbourhood demand for
inclusive, accessible, and culturally responsive programming.
Following approval of the project funding in July 2024, staff initiated the required site technical
studies including archaeological, topographic, arboricultural, and geotechnical investigations. The
multi-disciplinary consultant teams for Moberly Park and Ross Park Amenities were subsequently
retained in Q3 2025 for design and construction administration. Refer to Appendix B for further
context information.
Moberly Park
Moberly Park is a 3.6-hectare neighbourhood park located along E 59th Avenue and Prince Albert
Street. The park currently accommodates a range of amenities including sports fields, playground,
community garden, tennis courts, mature trees, and the Moberly Arts and Cultural Centre. Moberly
Park is directly adjacent to Walter Moberly Elementary School, resulting in shared use of open
space and high use by students in weekdays. The Masumi Mitsui Greenway, which directly
borders the north edge of Moberly Park, provides an east-west walking and cycling connections
across south Vancouver. The project site is located at the north field, which is presently classified
within the Vancouver Park Board’s inventory as a grade B-1 grass field in the system. The north
field is primarily programmed for youth soccer use. A review of field assets and permit record
indicates that this level of activity can be accommodated at nearby fields.
Ross Park
Ross Park is a 1.51-hectare neighbourhood park, two blocks east of Moberly Park, bounded by
Ross Street (Khalsa Diwan Road), Sherbrooke Street, E 57th Avenue and 59th Avenue. The
current park features include mature trees, children’s play areas, fieldhouse with washrooms,
wading pool, picnic shelter, seating areas and grass field. The project area is the south end of the
park, which is currently used for social gathering and summertime playground and wading pool
programming. These activities will be enhanced with a new spray park and seating areas and a
renewed playground. The existing fieldhouse is aging and does not meet current accessibility or
gender-inclusive service levels. The fieldhouse has been used for informal community activities,
which can be accommodated at other nearby facilities. Replacement of the building supports
inclusivity and provides an opportunity to right-size the facility and reduce long-term capital
maintenance costs.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 4
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
DISCUSSION
The following section provides an overview of the concept plan and the considerations that have
contributed to its development, broken down as follows:
- Moberly Park Amenities Concept Plan
- Ross Park Amenities Concept Plan
- Sunset Neighbourhood Engagement
- Moberly Park and Ross Park Public Outreach
- Neighbourhood Impacts Assessment
Moberly Park Amenities Concept Plan
The Moberly Park Amenities concept plan creates a vibrant and inclusive park that supports field
hockey and other recreational activities. Highlights of the proposed concept plan are described
below. See Figure 1: Moberly Park turf field and fieldhouse concept plan.
Figure 1: Moberly Park turf field and fieldhouse concept plan
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 5
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Synthetic turf field hockey field (Field Hockey Federation (FIH) standard):
- The proposed synthetic turf field will replace the existing grade B-1 grass field.
- Designed to meet FIH Innovation Category – Dry Turf and Category 3 standards,
supporting regional and local competitions, as well as community training.
- The field will be operated as a non-irrigated (dry) turf system, which requires significantly
less water for play and has lower initial capital and ongoing maintenance and operating
costs compared to traditional water-based fields.
- The project will include provisions for a wet-down irrigation system to support elite level
play should demand be identified. The irrigation system also provides the benefit of
surface cooling during periods of high summer temperatures for improved player safety
and comfort.
- The field will be lined for field hockey only but can support youth soccer practices.
- Warm up area will be considered close to main field.
Refer to Appendix F for more information about FIH standards.
Sports Field lighting:
- The sports field lighting system will be designed to FIH Class II for training and club
competitions.
- LED sports field lighting with associated control system connected to booking system.
- Extends programing hours of the turf field.
- Fixtures are designed to reduce lighting spill and glare disruption.
Fieldhouse:
- Located to the southwest corner, closest to existing servicing connections.
- Two publicly accessible, universal washrooms.
- Three public universal washrooms.
- Four changerooms with showers and washrooms.
- Storage rooms.
- Drinking fountain/bottle filler is provided on exterior wall.
Accessible looping path:
- Loops around the field to connect and provide universal access to new and existing
amenities.
- Support casual community use, including walking, running, and rolling.
- Pedestrian lighting provided to improve safety and user experience.
Flexible spectator seating:
- Located along north side of the turf field.
- Supports casual community use.
- Spectacular views to Mount Baker and Richmond.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 6
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
- Weather protection will be considered close to the sidewalk, dependent on funding.
- The flexible lawn area west of the turf field provides space for temporary seating.
Site furniture:
- Misting station, signage, seating will be provided along the main loop.
Planting, Trees and Meadow:
- 11 new deciduous trees are introduced to enhance the urban forest canopy.
Ross Park Amenities Concept Plan
The Ross Park improvements concept plan proposes to replace aging park features and improve
recreational amenities by creating a recirculating spray park, renewed playground and new
washroom building in support of a growing and diverse neighbourhood. The spray park will
replace the existing wading pool and all new water features will be recirculating in compliance
with Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) requirements. The existing fieldhouse will be demolished
and replaced with a new compact building that will include new washrooms to meet regulatory
and accessibility requirements. The current playground has reached the end of its service life and
is due for replacement. New accessible pathways are located throughout the plan to connect park
features. Highlights of the proposed concept plan are described below. See Figure 2: Ross Park
improvements concept plan.
Figure 2: Ross Park improvements concept plan
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 7
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Recirculating spray park:
- Water features for a range or ages and abilities including low intensity features such as
bubblers and ground sprays, and high intensity features such as splash bucket and
overhead sprays
- Tinted pattern, non-slip spray park hard surfacing
- Water recirculation tank
- Outdoor seating
- Drinking fountain
New washroom building:
- Four publicly accessible and universal washrooms
- Playground storage to support existing summer programming
- Mechanical room to house spray park equipment
- New exterior wall mural based on the existing mural surrounding the wading pool by the
original artist
- Outdoor showers
Playground renewal:
- Some retained play structures with refreshed features and playground surfacing
- New play equipment to support inclusive play for a range of ages and abilities including
accessible swings and spinners
- Outdoor seating
- Shade trees and planted areas
Sunset Neighbourhood Engagement
From July through November 2023, Park Board staff carried out a multiphase engagement
process in the Sunset neighbourhood to better understand how residents use local parks and
what outdoor amenities they value. Engagement activities included popups, community mapping
exercises, workshops with local organizations, and a third-party intercept survey conducted in
Punjabi, Mandarin, and English.
Staff documented support for a synthetic turf field at all community engagement events and a
higher level of organized support at advertised events. In addition to support for a synthetic turf
field, there was high level support for walking loops, improved seating, gathering spaces,
playgrounds and open and natural grass areas through the intercept survey and pop-up events.
(Refer to Appendix D Sunset Neighbourhood Engagement Key Themes). These findings helped
shape the development of the concept plans included in this report.
Moberly Park and Ross Park Outreach
Public information sessions for the Moberly Park and Ross Park improvements were held in
December 2025, with 70 participants joining Park Board staff to learn about the draft design
concepts, ask questions and view project information. Additional public outreach included
meeting with field hockey user groups to share the Moberly Park concept and meeting with
secondary school students participating in a Reframing South Vancouver afterschool club who
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 8
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
shared their visions for Ross Park. Refer to Appendix E for details about public engagement
activities, dates and participation.
Participants expressed broad support for both concept designs. Key themes that emerged during
the information sessions about elements incorporated in the concepts are as follows:
Moberly Park
- Support for field hockey primary facilities - Interest in elite level of play
- Desire for spectator seating
- Support for a walking loop with lighting and seating
Ross Park
- Value of the existing mural around the wading pool
- Need for more seating areas
- Desire to see more colour in the playground
- Interest in accessibility upgrades
Comments and questions about adding other park amenities will be considered during the detail
design phase, depending on budget. Requests for larger amenities that could not be addressed
in the current designs include the following:
- Another shade structure in Ross Park
- Covered spectator seating in Moberly Park
- Outdoor exercise equipment
Neighbourhood Impacts Assessment
Issue Impact Mitigation
Moberly Park
Existing field Moberly Field North is booked for Youth soccer practices can use the
bookings youth soccer. new synthetic turf field. Existing
displacement uses for youth soccer games can be
relocated to Moberly Field South or
Ross Park with additional South
Vancouver fields such as Killarney
coming online.
Parking The increased use of synthetic turf Approximately 90 parking spaces of
fields and extended hours can unrestricted street parking are
affect nearby neighbourhoods by available on park side.
adding traffic and increasing
Vancouver School Board indicated
parking demand.
future opportunity for the parking lot
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 9
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
at Walter Moberly Elementary
School converted to public pay
parking, adding potential 40 parking
spaces outside of school hours.
Transit and active transportation
routes are near Moberly and Ross
Parks. Both parks are within a 10-
minute walk to transit stops on
Fraser and Knight Streets and
located along the Masumi Mitsui
Greenway.
Sport field Field lighting can affect nearby To minimize the impact of extended
lighting neighbourhoods by prolonging lighting hours, the field will use a
noise and light during hours of play. two-tiered lighting system.
High-level field lights will operate
only during permitted booking times
through a controlled software
system, ensuring they are off when
the field is not in use. Lower-level
pedestrian lighting will remain on
after bookings end to support
pedestrian safety around the field.
Ross Park
Fieldhouse use Ross Park Fieldhouse has been These activities can be
utilized for informal community accommodated at nearby facilities,
activities that includes card games. including the Moberly Arts Centre
The engagement, including the and the soon to be completed new
recent presentations of the senior centre at Sunset Community
proposed design, did not result in Centre.
any concerns related to
displacement of these activities.
Table 1: South Vancouver Amenities Neighbourhood Impacts Assessment
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
The total estimated capital cost of the projects, including design, project management fees,
permits, construction and contingencies, is estimated to be $18.6M. Funding allocation is
primarily from the Growing Communities Fund and through the 2023-2026 Capital Planning Mid-
Term Update (MTU) To provide the additional proposed park amenities (playground renewal at
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 10
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Ross Park and addition of a walking loop at Moberly Park) a reallocation of $0.8M from existing
capital funding sources has been allocated. Funding allocation is summarized in the table below.
Approved in Capital
Approved
Approved Planning MTU (new Total Project
Project Funding
Funding Source fieldhouse/washroom Costs
Amount
building)
Moberly Turf Field Growing
$8.3M $5.3M $13.6M
and Fieldhouse Communities Fund
Ross Spray Park
Growing
and Washroom $1.7M $2.5M $4.2M
Communities Fund
Building
Additional Park
Capital Plan -
Amenities (both $0.8M - $0.8M
existing accounts
sites)
TOTAL $10.8M $7.8M $18.6M
Table 2: South Vancouver Park Amenities Funding
Operating Costs for Moberly Park Amenities
General maintenance costs for synthetic turf fields can reach up to $60K annually, excluding hard
asset repairs (e.g. fencing, drainage, asphalt etc.). Should the project be approved, the operating
budget would require a one-time cost for specialized maintenance equipment acquisitions
estimated at $75K.
Operating Costs for Ross Park Amenities
The initial estimate for the operating impacts to capital budget is calculated as 5% of the estimated
project construction cost or $85K per year upon project completion.
NEXT STEPS
Subject to the Board’s decision on the recommendation outlined in this report, detailed design for
these concept plans will commence. Next steps also include obtaining the required development
and building permits for the synthetic turf field lights and new fieldhouse and washroom buildings.
Construction of these amenities are targeted to begin in Q1 2027 and be completed in 2028,
dependent on favourable weather conditions for the completion of some features. The public will
be notified of project progress through onsite signage, project webpage and emails to community
groups and interest holders that were identified during the public engagement process. Staff will
explore innovative contracting opportunities to potentially shorten the overall project timeline.
CONCLUSION
The concept plans for the South Vancouver Amenities align with Park Board policies and are well
supported by the community. Staff recommend the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed
concept plans for Moberly Park and Ross Park as described in this report so that the projects can
proceed to detailed design and construction.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 11
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
APPENDIX A
Moberly Park Amenities
Figure 3: Moberly Park turf field and fieldhouse Rendering Perspective
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 12
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Ross Park Amenities
Figure 4: Ross Park fieldhouse and playground section
3
Figure 5: Ross Park spray park section
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 13
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
APPENDIX B
Context Information
Figure 6: VanPlay Initiative Zone map
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 14
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Figure 7: Context Plan for Moberly Park
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 15
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Figure 8: Context Plan for Ross Park
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 16
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
APPENDIX C
Related Park Board and City-wide Strategies and Policies
The proposed concept plans for Moberly Park and Ross Park Amenities are supported by
principles outlined in the following Park Board plans and strategies:
Park Board Plans and Strategies:
VanPlay (2019/2020): The Park Board’s Parks and Recreation Services Master Plan sets priorities
and provides tools and policies to support the pursuit of equity, connectivity, and access to parks
and recreation for all. The neighbourhood surrounding Moberly Park and Ross Park falls within
an equity initiative zone based on key indicators that identified it as having tree canopy gaps and
a high demand for low barrier recreation services (Refer to Appendix B). The park improvements
also help to meet 2040 Asset Targets identified in VanPlay by providing enhanced natural area
and habitats for bird and pollinator, universally accessible play features in the renewed
playground, continuous and accessible paths for all users.
VanSplash (2019): Vancouver Aquatics Strategy, approved by the Park Board, lays out a 25-year
vision and a city-wide approach to planning future pools and other aquatic amenities including
wading pools and spray parks. Following Recommendation 1 for Wading Pools and Spray Parks,
the wading pool at Ross park will converted to a spay park.
Urban Forest Strategy (2014): Policy and operational guidelines to enhance the urban forest on
private lands, streets, and parks. Following the strategy’s first goal to Protect against the decline
of canopy cover, healthy trees will be retained at both Moberly Park and Ross Park. Following the
strategy’s second goal to Plant to increase the urban forest canopy, new trees will be added to
the parks where space and activities allow.
Water Priority Action Plan (2023): A Park Board approved five-year plan to guide operational
decisions about the use of drinking water in parks and recreation facilities. Potable water will be
conserved by designing a recirculating system for the Ross Park spray park and a ‘dry turf’
synthetic turf field at Moberly Park.
Vancouver Sport Field Strategy (2024): A city-wide guide to sport field development, management
and maintenance decision making in Vancouver for the next 10+ years. The strategy prioritizes
the development of a field hockey specific pitch in a location in South Vancouver. On June 24,
2024, The Board approved the South Vancouver Park Amenities that confirmed Moberly Park as
the location for the field hockey field.
Parks Washroom Strategy (2020): The strategy guides the planning and improvement of public
washrooms in parks managed by the Vancouver Park Board. It focuses on increasing access,
upgrading aging facilities, improving cleanliness and safety, and ensuring accessible and inclusive
washrooms for park users. The washroom at Ross Park will be replaced and a new fieldhouse
will be constructed at Moberly Park. Both facilities will be designed according to the
recommendations and guidelines in the strategy.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 17
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Appendix D
Sunset Neighbourhood Engagement Key Themes
In July to November 2023, Park Board staff conducted a multi-phase engagement process in the
Sunset neighbourhood to better understand how residents use local parks and what outdoor
amenities they value. Sunset Neighbourhood Engagement was presented to the Park Board on
December 11, 2023.
Engagement • Included pop ups, community mapping exercises, workshops with local
Activities organizations and a third-party intercept survey conducted in Punjabi,
Mandarin and English.
Public • Staff collected:
Participation o 461 paper questionnaires
o 98 mapping inputs
o With additional conversations held at community festivals
and neighbourhood events.
Intercept Survey • Statistically representative survey of 500 Sunset area residents
• Conducted in English, Cantonese, and Punjabi designed to
reflect neighbourhood demographics
• Identified top outdoor amenity priorities including:
o walking paths
o natural areas
o shade trees
o synthetic turf fields ranking higher among respondents aged 19–34.
Key Themes • Strong interest in investment in Sunset area parks;
• Need for a variety of accessible, low-barrier outdoor amenities;
• Safety concerns around existing facilities;
• Desire for improved seating, gathering spaces and multi-use pathways;
• Importance of culturally responsive, multilingual engagement.
Table 3: Sunset Neighbourhood Engagement Approach and Key Findings
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 18
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
APPENDIX E
Moberly Park and Ross Park Outreach
Moberly Park Engagement Summary
Figure 9: Moberly Park Public Information Session Summary - Page 1 of 3
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 19
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Figure 10: Moberly Park Public Information Session Summary - Page 2 of 3
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 20
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Figure 11: Moberly Park Public Information Session Summary - Page 3 of 3
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 21
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Ross Park Engagement Summary
Figure 12: Ross Park Public Information Session Summary - Page 1 of 3
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 22
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Figure 13: Ross Park Public Information Session Summary - Page 2 of 3
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 23
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Figure 14: Ross Park Public Information Session Summary - Page 3 of 3
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 24
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
APPENDIX F
FIH Standards
Typical Use Surface Type Comments
Moberly FIH
Park Construction
Amenities Category
Category 1 Elite Hockey Requires a water- Class I lighting system
based turf for television
Top-level
international, Turf colour must Irrigation system is
Televised be blue required
tournaments.
Dedicated hockey Field must be
field originated in a
north/south direction
Category 2 High Requires a water- Class I lighting system
Performance based turf if televised events are
If used for planned
International and televised events
national televised Irrigation system is
tournaments. required
Dedicated hockey Turf must be blue,
field otherwise turf is Where possible field
to be green originated in a
north/south direction
(mandatory for
televised events).
Moberly Category 3/ Performance and Turf may be wet, Proposed target
Park field Innovation Dry Participation sand-dressed dry
hockey field Field or innovation Irrigation is optional
Regional and local category dry turf Where possible field
hockey. Typically, originated in a
a dedicated Turf to be blue or north/south direction.
hockey field green
Not televised.
Category 4 Participation Sand-dressed or
sand filled dry turf
Local, community
and school hockey
plus other sports.
May have multi-
sport line markings
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Page 25
South Vancouver Park Amenities – Concept Plan
Category 5 Foundation and Long pile infilled
Participation synthetic turf (dry)
Fields with
surfaces primarily
intended for
soccer, but also
allow basic
development
hockey activities to
take place
Table 4: FIH Field Certification comparison and Moberly Park field target
Moberly
FIH Standard
Park Intent Comments
Amenities
FIH Class I high-level national and international Class I lighting is not
competitions considered
appropriate for this
project sited in single
family neighborhood.
Moberly FIH Class II training and club competitions Proposed Target
Park sports
lighting
Lighting for Development & community Lighting is achieved
level training is not normally a separate through switching or
category diming of a Class I or
Class II lighting
system.
Table 5: FIH sports lighting comparison and Moberly Park sports lighting target
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026