Park Board General Manager’s Report
April 13, 2026
The following report is intended to provide an overview and update on recent and upcoming activities within
the Park Board.
Jonathan Rogers Park Improvements
Jonathan Rogers Park is a neighbourhood park in the Mount Pleasant Neighbourhood, within the
Broadway Plan area. Increasing population growth and limited green space puts pressure on
existing and aged park amenities, requiring updates to meet current and future demand while
keeping a park that is welcoming and accessible for all. The project is exploring updates such as
a renewed and more inclusive playground, improved accessibility, and a fenced dog off leash
area, while maintaining the community garden and open spaces for recreation, social gathering,
and community events.
This update is to inform the Board that public engagement on the draft concept plan will take place
from April 14 to May 3. Engagement activities include an on-site popup event on April 18 from
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., a Shape Your City page and online survey, postcards and onsite signage,
and outreach to key potential interest groups. Feedback from this engagement will inform
refinements to the concept plan, which is expected to return to the Board for review and decision
in Q4 2026.
Senior Scooter Rodeo
On March 6, Killarney Community Centre Association and Collingwood Community Policing
Centre partnered to offer the annual Scooter Rodeo for older adults. Geared towards
transportation, mobility and safety, the event is centred around an obstacle course where
participants ride a provided mobility scooter through a maze of traffic cones. Volunteers guide the
riders through the course where traffic police, radar and other surprises add extra levels of
difficulty.
Participants were also invited to engage with officers from TransLink and the Vancouver Police
Department, enjoy refreshments, and collect swag and safety information packets. Workshops on
personal, transit, and pedestrian safety were also open for all attendees.
Council Business (relating to or impacting parks & recreation):
Council to receive a report on April 14, 2026 titled “2026 Cultural Grants (Balance of Operating,
Cultural Spaces)”, which would approve a total of $5.5M in grants to 85 cultural organizations.
Council to receive a report on April 14, 2026 titled “Vancouver Community Sport Event Grants –
Spring 2026 Intake”, which would approve a total of 19 new Vancouver Community Sport Event
Grant applications totalling $89,000.
Council to receive a report on April 14, 2026 titled “Coastal Flood Management Policy”, which
would adopt the policy and articulate the City’s role and support in planning, implementation, and
management of structural and non-structural coastal flood management measures.
Page 1 of 1 13-Apr-26