Report Date: April 2, 2026
VanRIMS No.:
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Director, Park Planning and Development
SUBJECT: Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan
RECOMMENDATION
THAT the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for Burrard Slopes
Park as described and shown in this report.
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
The proposed concept plan described in this report is for Burrard Slopes Park, 0.83 hectares of
new Permanent Park located between the Fairview and Kitsilano neighborhoods within the
Broadway Plan area, on the Arbutus Greenway. The concept is informed by public engagement,
City and Park Board policies, and engagement with the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam Indian Band),
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation). Staff
completed public engagement on the proposed concept in April 2025 and received favourable
feedback.
This report shares the project’s design concept and seeks a Board decision on the proposed
concept plan, which includes new greenspace, 90 new trees, accessible paths, a new dog off
leash area, a new ‘skateboard/small wheels spot’, expanded biodiversity plantings, and a new
washroom amongst other features. A decision to approve the concept would advance the project
to detailed design.
BOARD AUTHORITY / PREVIOUS DECISIONS
As per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over all areas
designated as permanent and temporary parks in the City of Vancouver, including any structures,
programs and activities, fees, and improvements or major changes that occur within those parks.
The Vancouver Park Board approves major changes in Vancouver parks including the design and
development of parks.
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Burrard Slopes Park is located between Fairview and Kitsilano neighbourhoods on the unceded
and traditional territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam Indian Band), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation). The park is one of only a
few new parks identified for delivery in the Broadway Plan. The final privately owned property was
purchased through the Park Land Acquisition program and supported by the Park Board in
November 2025. It completed a decades-long assembly program to secure a full block park in an
underserved neighbourhood. The proposed design meets Broadway Plan Public Realm
Framework Policies, including:
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 2
− Keep pace with growth by renewing existing parks for higher intensity use by people of all
ages, abilities and cultural backgrounds,
− Complete the phased delivery of parks to meet residents’ needs for access to nature,
health, wellness and social connectedness, through community-engaged design, and
− Identify opportunities to expand existing park uses and connectivity through integration
with road reallocation, greenways and blue green systems.
The park will serve more than 19,500 Fairview and Kitsilano residents living within a 10-minute
walk of the site, over 34,500 residents living within a kilometre, as well as all those who visit, work
and play here.
As highlighted in VanPlay, the current city-wide park provision target is 1.1 hectares of
greenspace per 1,000 residents. Fairview is currently below this benchmark (0.52 ha/1,000
people), and the site is in an Equity Initiative Zone (EIZ). In this context, Burrard Slopes Park
helps address a documented access and service level gap while supporting significant planned
growth in the Broadway Plan. With the completion of the park, park provision for residents within
a 10-minute walk will increase to 0.76 ha/1000 people. (See Appendix B: Context Diagrams.)
During the early planning stage, staff conducted needs assessments to inform the concept plan.
The following were identified as high priorities: a skatepark; food and cultural gardens; pollinator
gardens; a flexible open lawn; playground accessibility upgrades; stormwater management
facilities; accessible pathways; seating and tables; and accessible parking stalls.
DISCUSSION
The following section provides an overview of the concept plan and the considerations that have
contributed to its development, broken down as follows:
− Proposed Concept Plan
− City and Park Board Policy alignment
− Engagement Process and Key Findings
− Park Naming and Cultural Expression
Proposed Concept Plan
The proposed concept plan features a central lawn, a skateboard and small-wheels spot,
pollinator and rain gardens, a dog off-leash area, a washroom, social spaces, and a network of
accessible paths in addition to existing features such as Pine Street Community Gardens, a
playground with picnic areas, and the Arbutus Greenway. (See Figure 1: Burrard Slopes Park
Proposed Concept Plan)
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 3
Figure 1: Burrard Slopes Proposed Concept Plan
Key features are further described below:
Central Lawn
A large, level lawn at the heart of the park supports a range of activities from day-to-day socializing
for 20 - 30 people and hosting small events for 50 - 100 people to occasional large events up to
1500 people if desired. The shaded and gently sloping hill along the lawn’s north edge invites
people to gather and observe the park activities and buffers the lawn from the skate area. Dense
tree planting along the lawn’s south edge screens it from the Arbutus Greenway.
Skateboard and Small-Wheels Spot
The ‘skatepark’ naming convention has been changed to ‘skateboard and small-wheels spot’ to
align with Skateboard Amenities Strategy typologies based on the area’s smaller square footage
in the revised plan. Its features are accessible to a range of user types (i.e. skateboards, BMX
bikes, roller and inline skating and scootering) and abilities. The location at the north side of the
park and a treed hill to the spot’s south provide separation and sound attenuation from residences
on West 6th Ave. Dense tree planting on the spot’s east and west creates further visual buffer.
Direct entrances to this area will minimize congestion and improve circulation.
Playground
The playground expansion offers a variety of play features to encourage motor skills and help
with social and emotional development in children of different ages and abilities. The added
playground area will have accessible surfacing, three new play features, and a circuit pathway.
Dog Off-Leash Area
The expanded dog off-leash area supports the current and future needs for dog owners in this
densifying neighborhood, while promoting that dogs remain on-leash in the rest of the park. The
location was carefully chosen, and a vegetation buffer was added to separate the off-leash area
from other park activities, especially quiet spaces. Accessible pathways and benches make the
area welcoming for all dog owners and provide a place to socialize.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 4
Pollinator Gardens and Rain Gardens
Pollinator gardens are the key feature of the western park edge. A diverse selection of native and
adapted flowers and grasses will provide seasonal interest, habitat, sensory interest, and a place
for respite. Rain gardens with similar plant species will offer continuous environmental and social
benefits while capturing rainwater from the park and adjacent streets.
Washroom
A new accessible washroom near the play and fitness areas will serve park goers and people
walking, cycling, and rolling through the area including Arbutus Greenway users.
Social Spaces
Seating and gathering areas throughout the park, including a community table and multipurpose
mini plaza, offer accessible places to observe activities, gather or relax and help foster social
connectedness. Seating and tables under the tree canopy and within the pollinator gardens offer
tranquil retreats for small groups or individuals. The inclusion of a mini plaza for small community
events responds to feedback from Civic Agencies and public engagement.
Active Transportation Upgrades
The collaborated efforts between Park Board and Engineering Departments will deliver seamless
integration between the park and surrounding active transportation projects. The following
upgrades will be delivered concurrently with the park construction:
− Separating Arbutus Greenway walking and cycling lanes as well as widening paths to meet
future needs.
− Extending green space on Pine St will include street trees, rain gardens and shared
micromobility stations.
Above mentioned upgrades and completion of the park contribute to the major active
transportation network including the Arbutus Greenway, Seaside Greenway Connection, and
Granville Bridge Connector. Accessibility and safety improvements include accessible street
parking and pedestrian crossing upgrades at Fir and 6th. A temporary bike path through the park
safely links the Arbutus Greenway and the Granville Connector, and will be replaced with a
permanent bike connection on Fir Street before park construction starts.
Enhanced Tree Canopy
The concept plan proposes over 90 new deciduous and evergreen trees, creating diverse habitat,
defining activity spaces, and providing shade. This supports the Urban Forest Strategy’s goal to
achieve 30% urban forest canopy by 2050, enhancing access to nature and supporting health
and wellness in this canopy deficient neighbourhood. The proposed planting prioritizes native
vegetation from the Local First Nations’ culturally significant plant lists to support ecosystem
functioning, as well as climate adapted species to support climate resilience.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 5
City and Park Board Policy Alignment
The proposed concept for Burrard Slopes Park is supported by principles outlined in the following
plans and strategies. For descriptions and relationship to Burrard Slopes Park, see Appendix A:
City and Park Board Policy Alignment.
− VanPlay (2019/2020)
− Broadway Plan (updated 2024)
− Broadway Public Realm Plan (2024)
− Arbutus Greenway Design Vision (2018)
− Vancouver Skateboard Amenities Strategy (2022)
− Rain City Strategy (2019)
− Urban Forest Strategy (Updated 2025)
− Biodiversity Strategy (2016)
− Parks Washroom Strategy (2020)
− People, Parks and Dogs - A Strategy for Sharing Vancouver Parks (2017)
City of Vancouver and Park Board Services Initiatives
Key City of Vancouver and Park Board Services Initiatives will be integrated into park delivery
where appropriate. For details on their integration with Burrard Slopes Park, see Appendix C: City
of Vancouver and Park Board Services Initiatives.
− Arbutus Greenway
− Seaside Greenway Connection
− Granville Connector
− Green Rainwater Infrastructure
− Washroom Priority Locations & Fieldhouse Strategy Update
Engagement Process and Key Findings
Public Engagement - Scope
Staff conducted two rounds of public engagement in September to October 2023 and April 2025.
The first round focused on understanding how people use the current space and identified values
and priorities for the future park. The second round sought feedback on the draft concept plan.
Across both rounds, we received over 75,000 webpage visits (more than 13,000 in Round 1 and
more than 62,000 in Round 2) and 1,917 survey responses (875 in Round 1 and 1,042 in Round
2).
In Round 2, over 80% of respondents supported the overall park concept plan; nearly 85% felt
the design will meet the needs of the community for a welcoming and safe park.
Public Engagement - Findings
The following were some common themes heard during the engagement, and how staff intend to
address these as the project proceeds:
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 6
Skatepark: 44% responded that the skatepark (which aligns with the Skateboard Amenities
Strategy) will meet the needs of the community, and 29% said it will not. The main area of concern
was sound with some it based on the large areas of concrete. Feedback guided design
refinements including reducing the size of the skatepark, shifting it further east and adjusting the
configuration and site grading. Additional refinements include the introduction of a landscape
berm to act as a visual buffer, while maintaining function. Lastly, staff conducted an acoustic study
which confirmed sound levels from the skateboard facility are anticipated to be comparable with
existing sounds in the vicinity.
Washroom: The washroom was the third most popular feature in the draft concept plan, while
some safety concerns were reported. Staff will ensure that safety features meet Parks Washroom
Strategy and Public Washroom Design & Technical Guidelines at a later phase of the project.
Dog Off-Leash Area: The completion of dog off-leash areas (OLAs) at Granville and Heather
parks were delivered as priority outcomes of the People, Parks and Dogs Strategy, and the
proposed design responds to a clear need for an OLA identified in Round 1 engagement. The
draft concept shown in Round 2 presented an OLA at 466 square meters, reflecting the site
capacity at that time. Engagement feedback identified interest in a larger off leash area. The final
design uses the recently acquired area to expand the OLA to 646 sq. m.
A summary of public engagement is provided in Appendix E - Engagement Summary. For the full
engagement summary reports see the Burrard Slopes Park Shape Your City project page.
Interest Holders, Adjacent Businesses, and Civic Agencies Engagement
Over 20 local neighbourhood organizations identified as interest holders were offered in-person
and online meetings, with information shared at key milestones. Staff also handed letters to
businesses adjacent to the park to inform them of project updates. Engagement with seven Civic
Agencies identified the need for a small event space, social spaces, and accessible parking spots,
all of which have been incorporated into the concept plan. (See Appendix D: Affiliations.)
Engagement with Musqueam Indian Band, Squamish Nation, and Tsleil-Waututh Nation
Engagement with the local First Nations was initiated through the inter-governmental referral
process from the beginning of the project in 2020, and continued throughout with ongoing
updates, discussions, and meetings. They provided significant input, which yielded the following
key directions:
− Incorporate culturally significant and climate adaptive plants to honour the local First
Nations’ relationship with the land;
− Provide cultural visibility to create a sense of belonging, presence and acknowledgement
and to share stories through art;
− Provide equal opportunities for all three Nations;
− Integrate hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓ and Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh sníchim languages into the design through
interpretive signage to bring the local Nations into the present; and
− Conduct archaeological protocols.
Park Naming and Cultural Expression
The project area is currently called Burrard Slopes Park; however, an official park name will be
identified through a separate engagement process, which will be guided by a forthcoming update
to the Park Naming Policy.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 7
Staff are committed to working collaboratively with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam Indian Band),
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation). Cultural
expression within the park will be developed in consultation with knowledge holders and artists
from the local Nations, ensuring that the park reflects and supports indigenous cultural visibility
that is both locally grounded and emergent from the significance of the site.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
The estimated design and construction cost for Burrard Slopes Park is $13.1M including project
management costs, cost escalation, contingencies, and capacity funding to support the Local First
Nations to integrate cultural expression, including park naming. The construction cost has been
validated by an independent cost consultant. This project is entirely eligible for DCL funding and
$4.3M is allocated in the 2019-2022 and 2023-2026 Capital Plans.
Design and construction of the Arbutus Greenway and Pine St upgrades and associated green
infrastructure will be funded through Engineering capital funding.
A funding ask will be made for the 2027-2030 Capital Plan for $8.8M for construction costs, with
additional funding for the washroom sought through the Washroom Program capital funding.
The total estimated cost of the project including land acquisitions dating back to the 1980s is
$69.2M, as detailed below, underscoring the decades of effort culminating in this major new park:
Estimated Costs ($M)
Building Deconstruction $3.0
Soft Costs* $4.3
Construction $8.8
Estimated Project Plan and Build $16.1
Completed Park Board Land
Acquisition Costs $53.1
*Soft costs, also known as indirect costs, include all costs related to design, engineering, site investigations,
archeology, contract documents, permitting, insurance, temporary greening, interim maintenance, project
management and consultation.
The initial estimate for the operating impact to capital budget is 5% of the project’s construction
cost or ~$400K, starting in 2031 (phase 1 construction is targeted to complete in 2029 under a
two-year maintenance contract with the contractor). Estimates for both capital and operating costs
will be refined at key stages of detailed design. Operating funds will be requested as a part of the
2031 operating budget.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
Arbutus Greenway and Pine Street Implementation
Staff are considering possible efficiencies in bundling consultancy and construction contracts for
Burrard Slopes Park with City of Vancouver Arbutus Greenway and Pine St upgrades including
associated green infrastructure. This approach may reduce scheduling risks and construction
impacts and result in cost savings.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 8
Two-phase construction
Construction of the park will proceed in two phases due to the recent acquisition of the property
at 1606 West 5th Avenue. Most of the park design will be constructed during Phase 1. The
pathway connecting the corner of Fir Street and West 5th Avenue, along with the dog off-leash
area, will be constructed in Phase 2 following the completion of soil contamination assessments
and the demolition of existing structures.
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
Subject to the Board’s decision on the recommendation outlined in this report, detail design for
Burrard Slopes Park will begin in Q2 2026, initiated through a public Request for Proposals to
select a technical design team to prepare construction ready tender documents. Construction is
expected in two phases with Phase 1 construction targeted from Q4 2027 to Q2 2029 for partial
opening, and Phase 2 construction from Q4 2029 to Q3 2030 to complete the park.
Burrard Slopes Park will provide much needed green space. The proposed concept plan is
designed to be inclusive and ecologically healthy, embracing the vision for parks articulated in
City and Park Board policies. It responds to the input from the local Nations and is broadly
supported by the community.
Staff recommend the Vancouver Park Board approve the proposed concept plan for Burrard
Slopes Park so the project can proceed to detail design and construction.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 9
APPENDIX A
City and Park Board Policy Alignment
VanPlay (2019/2020): The Parks and Recreation Services Master Plan supports the pursuit
of equity, connectivity, and access to parks and recreation for all. The Burrard Slopes Park
project aligns with the VanPlay Direction “Grow and Renew Parks and Recreation Assets: to
keep pace with population growth and evolving needs” by expanding parklands to provide
much needed public green space and recreational amenities at the former industrial site. The
project also aligns with the VanPlay Direction “Welcome Everyone: parks and recreation
experiences that improve quality of life” by creating a space where people of all ages, abilities,
and identities can gather to relax, enjoy nature, socialize, and recreate.
Broadway Plan (updated 2024): The 30-year plan will focus on opportunities to integrate
housing, jobs, and amenities (including parks, arts and culture, community gardens) around
the new Broadway Subway. The public benefit strategy directions include “develop and
deliver planned new park spaces, such as Burrard Slopes Park”.
Broadway Public Realm Plan (2024): Outlines the overall vision and guiding directions for the
public realm in the Broadway Plan area.
Arbutus Greenway Design Vision (2018): Walking and cycling pathways and future streetcar
accommodation on former CPR line. The Burrard Slopes Park project aligns with the “Harvest
Table” character zone to offer places for people to socialize and picnic.
Vancouver Skateboard Amenities Strategy (2022): Sets out a vision to provide a network of
welcoming skate amenities that serve a thriving and diverse community and strives to address
service gaps throughout the city. The Strategy’s phase I implementation plan recommends a
new skateboard amenity in the Kitsilano district, which includes Fairview and Kitsilano
neighbourhoods.
Rain City Strategy (2019): Reimagines and transforms how the City manages rainwater to
improve water quality, resilience, and livability by creating healthy, urban ecosystems across
Vancouver. Burrard Slopes Park is situated within a watershed that has been recognized as
a priority area to reduce stormwater volume, increase water quality, and increase tree cover
and vegetation.
Urban Forest Strategy (Updated 2025): Sets goals, targets, and actions to protect and
enhance Vancouver’s urban forest. The Burrard Slopes Park site is identified as a low tree
equity zone with 21% (Fairview) and 28% (Kitsilano) canopy coverage, which is below the
target of 30% canopy cover by 2050.
Biodiversity Strategy (2016): Supports the increase in amount and quality of Vancouver’s
natural areas to support biodiversity and access to nature.
Parks Washroom Strategy (2020): Suggests size and type of washroom based on park
classification. Burrard Slopes Park is identified as one of the priority washroom locations in
the Washroom Priority Locations & Fieldhouse Strategy Update (2024).
People, Parks and Dogs - A Strategy for Sharing Vancouver Parks (2017): Data-driven policy
to deliver well planned and designed parks for park users with and without dogs for the next
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 10
10 years. The assessment identifies Kitsilano as one of the highest priority neighbourhoods
for a new or enhanced dog off-leash area.
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 11
APPENDIX B
Context Diagrams
Figure 2: Burrard Slopes Park Context Diagram
Figure 3: Enlarged Public Realm Framework Map. Source: Broadway Plan (updated 2024)
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 12
Figure 4: VanPlay Equity Initiative Zones: Tree Canopy and Park Access Gaps
Figure 5: Parks within a 10-minute Walk of Burrard Slopes Park
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 13
APPENDIX C
City of Vancouver and Park Board Services Initiatives
− Arbutus Greenway: Walking, cycling and rolling experiences on the Arbutus Greenway
between Pine and Fir streets will be upgraded to reflect the Arbutus Greenway Vision. The
upgrades between will align with park delivery.
− Seaside Greenway Connection: The Pine St cycling connection between the Arbutus
Greenway and the Seaside Greenway became the preferred route and a priority for
implementation in 2018. A park-like design on Pine St between West 5th and 6th Aves will
be implemented to align with the park delivery.
− Granville Connector: A safe cycling connection between the 2025 Granville Connector and
the north terminus of the Arbutus Greenway will be created at West 5th Ave and Fir St.
When park construction starts, this connection will replace the temporary bike lane located
within the Burrard Slopes Park site.
− Green Rainwater Infrastructure: Rainwater management is integrated at the surface along
the north side of the Arbutus Greenway and east of the skatepark, including Pine St and
Fir St. In addition to managing on-site rainwater to meet Rain City Strategy standards for
parks, the design manages runoff from adjacent roadways where possible, as part of the
blue-green system network identified in the Broadway Plan.
− Washroom Priority Locations & Fieldhouse Strategy Update: Burrard Slopes Park is
identified as one of the priority sites for new washrooms in the 2024 Board briefing memo
describing updates to the Parks Washroom Strategy.
Figure 6: City of Vancouver and Park Board Initiative Map
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 14
APPENDIX D
Affiliations
Interest Holders* Civic Agencies Interdepartmental Team
South Granville BIA Children, Youth and Families Park Board
Advisory Committee - Operations & Urban Forestry
Kitsilano 4th Avenue BIA Persons with Disabilities Park Board
Advisory Committee - Arts, Reconciliation & Culture
Burrard Slopes Stakeholder Racial and Ethno-Cultural Park Board
Association Equity Advisory Committee - Policy & Planning
East India Carpets Women's Advisory Park Board
Committee - Archaeology, Infrastructure & Environment
HUB Cycling* Older Persons and Elders Park Board
Advisory Committee - Recreation Services
Vancouver Skateboard 2SLGBTQ+ Advisory Park Board
Coalition* Committee - Business Development
Pine Street Community Urban Indigenous Peoples' Park Board
Garden* Advisory Committee - Communications, Engagement & Marketing
City Farmer* Engineering Services
- Transportation Planning and Design
Vancouver School Board Engineering Services
- Green Infrastructure
District Parent Advisory Council Engineering Services
- Integrated Sewer and Drainage Planning
Century High School Engineering Services
- Street Activities
St. Augustine School Engineering Services
- Water and Utilities Management
Madrona School Engineering Services
- Land Survey
Fraser Academy Engineering Services
- Energy and Utilities
St John’s School Real Estate & Facilities Management
- Environmental Services
Centre culturel francophone de Real Estate & Facilities Management
Vancouver - Facilities Development
Kitsilano Area Childcare City Protective Services
Society - Security Programs
La Calypso Preschool Fire Rescue Services
- Community Safety & Risk Reduction
Terraces on 7th Development, Building &Licensing
- Permitting Services
Sanford Apartments on West Legal Services
7th - City Solicitor
Kichirano - Japanese Canadian City Emergency Management
historic neighbourhood* - Resilience and disaster risk reduction
Khalsa Diwan Society
Kitsilano Fairview Community
Policing Centres*
Table 1: Interest Holders, Civic Agencies, and Interdepartmental Team List
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 15
*Staff met with interest holders marked with *. All others were invited to meet and provided with project
updates.
Figure 7: Distribution area for letter drop to businesses adjacent to Burrard Slopes Park
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 16
APPENDIX E
Engagement Summary – Round 1
Figure 8: Round 1 Engagement Activities and Feedback Summary
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 17
Engagement Summary – Round 2
Figure 9: Round 2 Engagement Activities Summary and Draft Concept Plan
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 18
Figure 10: Round 2 Engagement Feedback on Proposed Park Plan Pt.1
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 19
Figure 11: Round 2 Engagement Feedback Summary - Proposed Park Plan Pt.2
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 20
Figure 12: Round 2 Engagement Feedback Summary - Playground Expansion
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 21
Figure 13: Round 2 Engagement Feedback Summary - Skatepark, Community Gardens, and Washroom
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026Burrard Slopes Park – Concept Plan Page 22
Figure 14: Round 2 Engagement Feedback Summary – Exercise Equipment, Green Space, Cooling
Features, and Dog Park
Park Board Meeting: April 13, 2026