BOARD MEETING Wednesday, May 27, 2026, 7:00 to 9:00 pm
In the Boardroom
AGENDA
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1 LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
With deep gratitude and respect, we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and
unceded lands of the xʷməθkʷəyə̓ m (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) and
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation).
1.2 OPENING REMARKS
The meeting is currently being broadcasted live, and both the audio and video recordings will be accessible
to the public for viewing even after the meeting ends. Footage from this meeting may be viewed from
Canada or anywhere else in the world.
2. APPROVAL OF AGENDA
That the agenda be approved as presented.
3. ADOPTION OF MINUTES
3.1 Board Meeting of April 29, 2026
3.2 Special Board Meeting of April 30, 2026
3.3 Matters Arising from the Minutes
3.4 That the minutes of the April 29, 2026 Board meeting and April 30, 2026 Special Board meeting be adopted as
circulated.
4. SUPERINTENDENT’S UPDATE
4.1 Superintendent’s Highlights
5. COMMITTEE REPORTS
5.1 EDUCATION PLAN COMMITTEE
5.1.1 Report: Meeting of May 6, 2026
5.1.2 Matters Arising
5.1.2.1 School Codes of Conduct - Personal Digital Devices
That the Board defer consideration of the motion at this time and request that additional
refinements be made to clarify key elements of the proposed direction, in order to support
informed Board decision-making.
5.2 FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
5.2.1 Report: Meeting of May 13, 2026
5.2.2 Matters Arising
5.2.2.1 School Fee Schedules for 2026-2027
That the Board approve the school fee schedules for the 2026-2027 school year.
5.3 POLICY AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
5.3.1 Report: Meeting of May 13, 2026
5.3.2 Matters Arising
5.3.2.1 Policy 6 - Trustee Remuneration And Expenses
That the Board approve Policy 6 - Trustee Remuneration and Expenses and further that the
Board rescind trustee remuneration and expenses guidelines set out in Appendix B of Policy 7
- Board Operations.
5.3.3 Matters Arising from November 12, 2025 Meeting
5.3.3.1 Policy 18: Student Trustee
That the Board approve Board Policy 18: Student Trustee.
Meeting Agenda Agenda Package Page 1 of 35 Page 1 of 26. STUDENT TRUSTEE REPORT
(The online link for submitting questions to this meeting will now be closed.)
7. REPORTS FROM TRUSTEE REPRESENTATIVES
7.1 Report from Trustee Fraser on the City of Vancouver Urban Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee
meeting held on March 30, 2026.
8. NEW BUSINESS
9. NOTICES OF MOTION
10. PUBLIC QUESTION PERIOD (Submitted through the online link)
11. REPORT ON PRIVATE SESSION
11.1 Meeting of April 29, 2026
11.2 Special Meeting of April 29, 2026
11.3 Special Meeting of May 25, 2026
11.4 Meeting of May 27, 2026
12. ADJOURNMENT
Meeting Agenda Agenda Package Page 2 of 35 Page 2 of 2ITEM 3.1
BOARD MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, April 29, 2026 at 7:01pm
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) met in room 114 (the Boardroom), VSB Education Centre,
1580 West Broadway, Vancouver, B.C. on Wednesday, April 29, 2026, at 7:01pm. The meeting was live streamed.
Trustees Present: Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Janet Fraser, Vice-Chairperson
Lois Chan-Pedley
Alfred Chien
Preeti Faridkot
Suzie Mah
Jennifer Reddy
Christopher Richardson
Joshua Zhang
F reddie Zhang (Student Trustee)
Senior Team Members Present: Helen McGregor, Superintendent of Schools
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
Pedro da Silva, Associate Superintendent
Maureen McRae-Stanger, Associate Superintendent
Janis Myers, Associate Superintendent
Alison Ogden, Associate Superintendent
Michael Gray, Executive Director, Employee Services
Jessie Gresley-Jones, Executive Director, Facilities
Lorelei Russell, Executive Director, Finance
Also Present: Patricia MacNeil, Communications Director
Judy Mah, Executive Coordinator (Recorder)
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1. Land Acknowledgement
The Chairperson called the meeting to order. She acknowledged with deep gratitude and respect, we are
honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the xʷməθkʷəyə̓ m
(Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation).
1.2. Opening Remarks
The Chairperson welcomed members of the audience to the meeting. She reviewed meeting decorum, and
the process for submitting questions to the Board during question period. She noted that members of the
audience could also submit questions for the Public Question Period using the device available in the
boardroom. She then encouraged all participants to put their phones away or on silent to ensure effective
engagement and interactive discussion.
In her opening remarks, the Chairperson informed the Board that she had attended the Lapu-Lapu Day of
Togetherness along with many of her fellow trustees. She noted the cultural pride, resilience and unity
demonstrated throughout the event and acknowledged the challenges experienced by many in both the
school and broader communities during this time.
She expressed gratitude for the valuable input received from inherent rights holders, stakeholder groups,
staff, students, their families and the wider community as well as the contributions of her fellow trustees
throughout the Financial Planning Process.
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 3 of 35 Page 1 of 72. APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by S. Mah, that the agenda be approved as presented.
The Chairperson asked if there were any trustees not in support of the motion. There being none, the agenda
was approved as presented.
APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY
3. ADOPTION OF MINUTES
3.1 Special Public Delegation Meeting of February 23, 2026
3.2 Board Meeting of February 25, 2026
3.3 Special Board Meeting of March 16, 2026
3.4 Special Board Meeting of April 7, 2026
3.5 Special Board Meeting/Committee of the Whole of April 13, 2026
3.6 Special Public Delegation Meeting of April 15, 2026
3.7 Special Board Meeting of April 20, 2026
3.8 Matters Arising from the Minutes
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by L. Chan-Pedley, that the minutes of the February 23, 2026 Special Public
Delegation Board meeting, February 25, 2026 Board meeting, March 16, 2026 Special Board meeting, April
7, 2026 Special Board meeting, April 13, 2026 Special Board/Committee of the Whole meeting, April 15,
2026 Special Public Delegation Board meeting, April 20, 2026 Special Board meeting be adopted as
circulated.
The Chairperson asked if there were any trustees not in support of the motion. There being none, the minutes
were
APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY
4. SUPERINTENDENT’S UPDATE
4.1. Superintendent’s Highlights
The Superintendent shared a presentation that highlighted recent events and achievements for the District,
and their alignment with the VSB Education Plan.
She presented the Superintendent’s tribute and recognized the positive contributions and leadership from
Darko Kulic, volunteer basketball coach from King George Secondary School.
She acknowledged the difficulties experienced by many students, families, staff and members of the Filipino
Community impacted by last year’s tragedy at the Lapu Lapu Festival. She thanked VSB staff for supporting
students and the school community during this difficult period and encouraged families to reach out to their
school principal if additional support was needed.
She then highlighted the following under the Superintendent’s Highlights:
• Indigenous Focus Day, a district-wide professional development day, that took place on Monday, April
20, 2026.
• Alternative education highlights including the opening of Earth Spirit Healing Garden on April 17, 2026
and the Alternative Programs Art Show held from April 21 to 24, 2026.
• Sustainability at VSB noting that the VSB’s Environmental Sustainability Plan had been updated in 2026,
VSB’s work with BC Parks on a number of projects, and other sustainability updates within the VSB.
• Career programs including the kick off of education week and celebration of the Early Childhood Educator
dual credit program offered at Langara College with Minister of Education Lisa Beare.
• Connecting with families through an episode of VSB’s After the Bell Podcast that featured information on
summer learning opportunities; two facilitated focus groups with families featuring information on digital
and media; and an upcoming information session in June with Media Smarts on the topic of Building
Better Tech Habits.
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 4 of 35 Page 2 of 75. COMMITTEE REPORTS
5.1. FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
5.1.1 Report: Meeting of April 8, 2026
The Chairperson of the Committee, J. Fraser, presented the report of the April 8, 2026 meeting, a copy of
which is filed with these minutes. The report includes information on the following items:
• Summer Learning Fees
• Draft 2026-2027 Financial Plan
Moved by J. Fraser, seconded by C. Richardson, that the report of the April 8, 2026 meeting be received.
Following discussion, the Chairperson asked if there were any trustees not in support of the motion. There
being none, the motion was
APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY
5.1.2 Matters Arising
5.1.2.1 Summer Learning Fees
Moved by J. Fraser, seconded by L. Chan-Pedley, that the Board approve the following 2026 Summer
Learning fees:
• Non-resident Student Summer Learning fee of $1,090 for preview, review, and ELL courses,
• Non-resident Student Summer Learning fee of $2,175 for grade 10-12 completion courses,
• Elementary fee-paying course fee of $425.
Trustee Fraser noted that the summer learning fees being considered in the motion applied to non-
resident students and for summer learning courses that are not funded by the Ministry of Education
and Child Care.
Trustees provided comments.
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, J. Fraser, S. Mah, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Against: J. Reddy
Abstained: P. Faridkot
5.1.2.2 2026-2027 Financial Plan and 2026-2027 Annual Budget Bylaw
Moved by J. Fraser, seconded by P. Faridkot, that the Board approve the 2026-2027 Financial Plan.
Trustee Fraser provided rationale for the motion. Trustees provided comments and shared their views
regarding the 2026-2027 Financial Plan.
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Moved by J. Fraser, seconded by C. Richardson, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Annual
Budget Bylaw 2026/2027 be given three readings at this meeting.
DEFEATED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 5 of 35 Page 3 of 7The Chairperson informed the Board that since unanimous consent was not received to conduct all
three readings of the Annual budget Bylaw 2026/2027 at the April 29, 2026 Board meeting, a separate
meeting would be held on April 30, 2026 to consider the final reading of the bylaw.
Moved by J. Fraser, seconded by C. Richardson, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Annual
Budget Bylaw 2026/2027 be:
Read a first time the 29th day of April, 2026;
Read a second time the 29th day of April, 2026;
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
5.2. FACILITIES PLANNING COMMITTEE
5.2.1 Report: Meeting of April 8, 2026
The Chairperson of the Committee, P. Faridkot, presented the report of the April 8, 2026 meeting, a copy of
which is filed with these minutes. The report includes information on the following items:
• Capital Bylaw No. 2026/27-CPSD39-01
• 2026-2027 Annual Facilities Grant Spending Plan
• Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary Easement Agreement
• New Elementary School at Olympic Village Update
Moved by J. Fraser, seconded by A. Chien, that the report of the April 8, 2026 meeting be received.
Following discussion, the Chairperson asked if there were any trustees not in support of the motion. There
being none, the motion was
APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY
5.2.2 Matters Arising
5.2.2.1 Capital Bylaw No. 2026/27-CPSD39-01
Moved by P. Faridkot, seconded by S. Mah, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Capital Bylaw
No.2026/27-CPSD39-01 be given three (3) readings at this meeting.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Moved by P. Faridkot, seconded by L. Chan-Pedley, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Capital
Bylaw No.2026/27-CPSD39-01 be:
Read a first time this 29th day of April, 2026;
Read a second time this 29th day of April, 2026;
Read a third and final time, passed and adopted this 29th day of April, 2026.
Trustees provided comments then voted on the motion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
5.2.2.2 2026-27 Annual Facilities Grant Spending Plan
Moved by P. Faridkot, seconded by C. Richardson, that the Board approve the 2026-2027 Annual
Facilities Grant Expenditure Plan for submission to the Ministry of Infrastructure.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 6 of 35 Page 4 of 75.2.2.3 Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026
Moved by P. Faridkot, seconded by L. Chan-Pedley, that the Board of Education of School District
No. 39 (Vancouver) Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026
be given three (3) readings at this meeting.
Trustee Reddy requested that the motion be referred back to the Facilities Planning Committee.
Moved by J. Reddy, seconded by S. Mah, that the Board of Education of School District No. 39
(Vancouver) Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026 be
referred back to the Facilities Planning Committee in order for staff to undertake a study of the
traffic and safety impact on the Fleming school grounds of the proposed easement including a full
consultation with the school community on:
• the use of the portion of the school lands currently being used as a surface parking lot;
• a full assessment of parking needs and whether both a parkade and a surface parking lot are
required;
• the comparative commercial/market value of a parking access easement;
• safety concerns relating to the use of the property by students of the school;
• any other matters relating to the use of the property by students of the school; and
• any other matters relating to the proposed easement;
• all of which is necessary to fully inform the board of trustees before a vote is taken on the new
bylaw.
Trustee Reddy provided rationale for the referral motion, and discussion ensued. Board members
asked questions and staff responded. Following discussion, trustees voted on the motion.
DEFEATED
For: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Against: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Trustees returned to the main motion, that had been moved and seconded.
That the Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary
School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026 be given three (3) readings at this meeting.
DEFEATED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Moved by P. Faridkot, seconded by L. Chan-Pedley, that the Board of Education of School District
No. 39 (Vancouver) Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026
be:
Read a first time the 29th day of April, 2026;
Read a second time the 29th day of April, 2026;
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
6. STUDENT TRUSTEE REPORT
The student trustee presented a report highlighting recent activities and upcoming key initiatives for the
Vancouver District Students’ Council (VDSC) for the 2025-2026 school year. He reported on recent VDSC activities,
including updates from student representatives on school events such as carnivals, Indigenous Focus Day, dance
tournaments, and Earth Day celebrations.
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 7 of 35 Page 5 of 7He informed the Board that the feedback received from the student budget survey noted the need for clearer
information on the process for obtaining support services. He highlighted the VDSC’s efforts in supporting student
wellbeing through collaboration with staff to share mental health resources and the development of a
“mindfulness minute” toolkit for classroom use. Additional updates included VDSC’s senior executive team
participation in the Lower Mainland Student Government Symposium, upcoming Senior Executive elections on
May 26th, and preparations for the 9th Annual Arts Gala themed "What Comfort Looks Like for Students."
Trustees provided comments and asked questions, and the student trustee responded.
The Chairperson announced the online link for submitting questions to the meeting would now be closed.
7. REPORTS FROM TRUSTEE REPRESENTATIVES
The Chairperson thanked Trustee Faridkot for submitting a liaison trustee report for the Women’s Advisory
Committee, noting that one of the items discussed at that meeting pertained to child care, a topic that was also
very important for the VSB.
7.1 Report from Trustee Faridkot on the Women’s Advisory Committee meeting held on February 10, 2026.
8. NEW BUSINESS
8.1 John Henderson Annex Lease Bylaw 2026
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by P. Faridkot, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) John Henderson Annex
Lease Bylaw 2026 be given three (3) readings at this meeting.
Trustee Faridkot provided rationale for the motion and discussion ensued. Following discussion, trustees
voted on the motion.
DEFEATED
For: L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson,
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Abstained: A. Chien, J. Zhang
The Board Chair informed trustees that unanimous consent was not received to conduct three readings of
the bylaw at the April 29, 2026 Board meeting and that the Board would now proceed with two readings of
the John Henderson Annex Lease Bylaw 2026.
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by L. Chan-Pedley, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) John Henderson
Annex Lease Bylaw 2026 be:
Read a first time the 29th day of April, 2026;
Read a second time the 29th day of April, 2026;
CARRIED
For: L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, C. Richardson
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Abstained: A. Chien, J. Zhang
9. NOTICES OF MOTION
The Chair noted that there were no notices of motion received for the meeting then called a recess at 8:26 pm.
Trustees Chan-Pedley and Zhang left the meeting at 8:26 pm.
The meeting resumed at 8:41 pm.
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 8 of 35 Page 6 of 710. PUBLIC QUESTION PERIOD
The Chairperson informed the board that three budget related questions were received during the public
question period pertaining to the following:
• Budget development process in relation to early intervention and inclusive education supports.
• The reporting and management of legal fees related to ongoing court cases.
• The cost associated with specialized programs and the extent to which the District's Inclusive Education
framework aligns with current best practices.
11. REPORT ON PRIVATE SESSION
11.1 Special Meeting of March 11, 2026
The Board authorized the Board Chair to report to the April 29, 2026 Public Meeting that, at the Special
Private Session of March 11, 2026, the Board discussed a legal matter.
11.2 Special Meeting of March 16, 2026
The Board authorized the Board Chair to report to the April 29, 2026 Public Meeting that, at the Special
Private Session of March 16, 2026, the Board discussed a personnel matter and completed the Performance
Review and Growth Plan for the Superintendent in accordance with Board Policy 12.
11.3 Special Meeting of March 17, 2026
The Board authorized the Board Chair to report to the April 29, 2026 Public Meeting that, at the Special
Private Session of March 17, 2026, the Board discussed a legal matter.
11.4 Special Meeting of March 30, 2026
The Board authorized the Board Chair to report to the April 29, 2026 Public Meeting that, at the Special
Private Session of March 30, 2026, the Board discussed an appeal matter.
11.5 Special Meeting of April 1, 2026
The Board authorized the Board Chair to report to the April 29, 2026 Public Meeting that, at the Special
Private Session of April 1, 2026, the Board discussed an appeal matter.
11.6 Special Meeting of April 13, 2026
The Board authorized the Board Chair to report to the April 29, 2026 Public Meeting that, at the Special
Private Session of April 13, 2026, the Board discussed personnel, property, legal matters and business
interests.
12. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned by consensus at 8:45 pm.
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 9 of 35 Page 7 of 7ITEM 3.2
SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, April 30, 2026 at 12:33pm
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) met on Teams on Thursday, April 30, 2026 at 12:33pm.
The meeting was live streamed.
Trustees Present: Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Janet Fraser, Vice-Chairperson
Lois Chan-Pedley
Alfred Chien
Preeti Faridkot
Suzie Mah
Jennifer Reddy
Joshua Zhang
Trustees Absent: Christopher Richardson
Senior Team Members Present: Helen McGregor, Superintendent of Schools
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
L orelei Russell, Executive Director of Finance
Also Present: Patricia MacNeil, Communications Director
Tara Hamer-Hayley, Rentals and Leases Supervisor
Judy Mah, Executive Coordinator (Recorder)
1. CALL MEETING TO ORDER
1.1. Land Acknowledgement
The Chairperson called the meeting to order. She acknowledged with deep gratitude and respect, we are
honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm
(Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation).
1.2. Opening Remarks
The Chairperson reviewed meeting decorum then welcomed trustees and staff. She introduced the board
members who had joined the meeting online.
2. OLD BUSINESS
2.1 2026-2027 Annual Budget Bylaw
The Chairperson noted that at the April 29, 2026 Public Board meeting, the 2026-2027 Annual Budget Bylaw
was given two readings, and that the bylaw would be read a third and final time at the April 30, 2026 Special
Public Board meeting.
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by P. Faridkot, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) Annual Budget Bylaw
2026/2027 be read a third and final time, passed and adopted the 30th day of April, 2026.
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Board Meeting Minutes Agenda Package Page 10 of 35 Page 1 of 22.2 Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by P. Faridkot, that the Board of Education of School District No. 39
(Vancouver) Sir Sandford Fleming Elementary School Parking Access Easement Bylaw 2026 be read a third
and final time, passed and adopted this 30th day of April, 2026.
CARRIED
For: A. Chien, L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung, J. Zhang
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
2.3 John Henderson Annex Lease Bylaw 2026
Moved by V. Jung, seconded by P. Faridkot, that School District No. 39 (Vancouver) John Henderson
Annex Lease Bylaw 2026 be read a third and final time, passed and adopted this 30th day of April, 2026.
CARRIED
For: L. Chan-Pedley, P. Faridkot, J. Fraser, V. Jung
Against: S. Mah, J. Reddy
Abstained: A. Chien, J. Zhang
Trustee Richardson tried to join the meeting at 12:38 pm but was unable to do so due to technical difficulties.
3. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned by consensus at 12:39 pm.
Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer Victoria Jung, Chairperson
Board Meeting Minutes Page 2 of 2
Agenda Package Page 11 of 35ITEM 5.1.1
EDUCATION PLAN COMMITTEE
Wednesday, May 6, 2026
Committee Report to the Board, May 27, 2026
The Chairperson of the Committee called the meeting to order at 5.00 pm. He acknowledged with deep gratitude
and respect, we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Siwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) & səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation).
This meeting was live-streamed, and both the audio and visual recordings were also available to the public for
viewing after the meeting. Footage from this meeting may be viewed from Canada or anywhere else in the world.
A presentation detailing the flow of the agenda was shown throughout the meeting, a copy of which is on file with
the meeting agenda.
1. School Codes of Conduct - Personal Digital Devices
Associate Superintendent P. da Silva presented a report and presentation titled School Codes of Conduct -
Personal Digital Devices, copies of which are on file with the meeting agenda. The presentation included an
update on VSB’s implementation of personal digital device restrictions as guided by the Ministry of Education
and Child Care’s Personal Digital Device (Cell Phone) Restrictions in Schools Policy. This policy directed School
Districts to ensure that their codes of conduct include one or more statements about restricting the use of
personal digital devices in schools. The presentation provided background on the implementation timeline,
engagement findings, key areas of focus, and ongoing priorities, and included discussion on the motion that
was referred to the Education Plan Committee by the Board at the February 25, 2026 Board meeting to further
update the School Codes of Conduct pertaining to device restrictions. Three options for recommendations
were presented for committee trustees to consider during discussion of the referral motion.
Committee members participated in small group facilitated discussions to provide input on the topic, including
clarification of the motion, implementation considerations and perspectives. Each group then summarized
the key points from their discussion.
The small group discussion is summarized below:
Clarification of the Motion – Understanding Intent, Scope and Key Details
The discussion clarified the current restrictions regarding personal digital devices and explained how these
restrictions would change should the proposed motion be approved. Committee members reviewed current
restrictions that elementary students must keep devices out of sight and on silent throughout the school day,
while secondary students face similar restrictions during instructional time but are permitted to use devices
during breaks and lunch. The proposed motion would extend restrictions to prohibit secondary students from
using cellphones during these non-instructional periods.
Implementation Considerations – Feasibility, Approach and Challenges
Participants emphasized that any changes should be practical, well-communicated, and responsive to student
needs. Concerns were raised about enforcing new restrictions, especially during breaks and lunch, and the
potential for increased staffing, supervision, and logistical demands. The discussion underscored the
importance of balancing stricter rules with student safety, equity, and well-being, recognizing that some
students require device access for family communication or health reasons. The groups also noted that further
clarity was needed around exceptions and the meaning of explicit educator permission.
Perspectives on the Motion – Insights, Feedback and Viewpoints
Group feedback reflected a clear preference for a measured, education-based approach centred on digital
literacy, with an emphasis on setting clear expectations, ensuring consistent implementation, and engaging
families throughout the process. Participants supported prioritizing clarity and education before introducing
Education Plan Committee Agenda Package Page 12 of 35
Page 1 of 3
Reportadditional restrictions and highlighted the importance of including student voice in both the rollout and long-
term success of any policy changes.
The Chairperson called a recess at 5:49 pm. The meeting resumed at 5:55 pm.
The Chairperson asked committee members if they would like to recommend one of the three
recommendations outlined in the report and displayed on the screen. Based on the feedback received from
the discussion, he then suggested that option 3 be considered first by trustee who are committee members.
THAT the Education Plan Committee recommend that the Board not proceed with consideration of the
motion, as current policy and practice are assessed to be sufficient to address student use of personal digital
devices, and further Board direction is not necessary at this time.
In response to a procedural question from a trustee, the Chairperson agreed to open the floor to any other
questions that had not already been addressed regarding the three recommendation options. He also
addressed a request from Board Chair Jung to allow a stakeholder representative to ask additional questions
concerning the current policy.
Committee members, trustees, and stakeholder representatives provided comments and asked questions,
and the Associate Superintendent and Board Chair provided clarification on various points.
Following discussion, the Chairperson returned to the recommendations in the report, then asked if
committee members were in favour of forwarding recommendation option 3 to the Board. The trustees asked
for clarification about both the recommendation options and the voting process. The Chairperson explained
that they would first consider option 3 before considering other options in the report. Trustees Richardson
and Mah indicated that they were not in support of option 3.
The Chairperson invited committee members to engage in discussion regarding recommendation option 2.
There was unanimous support from committee members to forward the following recommendation to the
Board for consideration:
THAT the Education Plan Committee recommend that the Board defer consideration of the motion at this
time and request that additional refinements be made to clarify key elements of the proposed direction, in
order to support informed Board decision making.
2. Framework for Enhancing Student Learning (FESL) – Updates on Human and Social Development
Associate Superintendent M. McRae-Stanger along with Directors of Instruction, A. Van Vliet, C. Wong, R.
Lopez and District Principals B. Morishita and G. Sohal presented a report titled Framework for Enhancing
Student Learning (FESL) – Updates on Human and Social Development.
The presentation at the Education Plan Committee meeting featured examples of the important
work of the Equity and Anti-oppression and the Mental Health and Social Emotional Learning teams to
support Human and Social Development for students across the VSB.
Committee members, trustees, and stakeholder representatives provided comments, and the District
Principals and Directors of Instruction answered questions and provided clarification on various points from
the presentation and report.
The meeting adjourned at 6.49 pm.
Alfred Chien, Chairperson
Education Plan Committee Agenda Package Page 13 of 35 Page 2 of 3
ReportCommittee Members Present: Alfred Chien (Chair)
Christopher Richardson (Vice-Chair)
Lois Chan-Pedley
Suzie Mah
Other Trustees Present: Victoria Jung (Alt.)
Senior Team Members Present: Pedro da Silva, Associate Superintendent
Maureen McRae-Stanger, Associate Superintendent
Janis Myers, Associate Superintendent
Alison Ogden, Associate Superintendent
Association Representatives Present: Suzette Magri, CUPE 15
Elizabeth Klaiber Noble, DPAC
Angie Haveman, VASSA
Bruce Garnett, VASSA
Theo Huberman, VDSC
Francoise Raunet, VEAES
Riley McMitchell, VEPVPA
Also Present: Rick Lopez, Director of Instruction
Amy Van Vliet, Director of Instruction
Christopher Wong, Director of Instruction
Brandon Morishita, District Principal
Gurpaul Sohal, District Principal
Rochita Gondhalekar (Recorder)
Education Plan Committee Agenda Package Page 14 of 35 Page 3 of 3
ReportITEM 5.1.2.1
May 27, 2026
TO: Board of Education
FROM: Education Plan Committee
RE:
School Codes of Conduct - Personal Digital Devices
Reference to GOALS AND Goal 1: The Vancouver School Board will improve student
Education Plan OBJECTIVES: achievement, physical and mental well-being, and belonging by...
• Encouraging students to reach beyond previous boundaries in
knowledge and experience.
• Improving school environments to ensure they are safe, caring,
welcoming and inclusive places for students and families.
INTRODUCTION
The Education Plan Committee met on May 6, 2026 to review the following motion referred from the
February 25, 2026 Public Board meeting:
“That the Board direct the Superintendent to update VSB School Codes of Conduct to restrict
student use of personal digital devices and to develop associated implementation guidelines in
collaboration with school leaders, with the updated Codes of Conduct and guidelines to be in place
by September 1, 2026;
And further;
That the updated Codes of Conduct require students in kindergarten through grade twelve to keep
digital devices on silent and out of sight for the entire school day unless explicit permission is
granted by an educator.”
The Committee engaged in small group discussions and considered three possible recommendations at the
meeting. Following discussion, the Education Plan Committee recommended that the Board defer
consideration of the motion at this time and request that additional refinements be made to clarify key
elements of the proposed direction, in order to support informed Board decision making.
BACKGROUND
In Spring 2024, the Ministry of Education and Child Care introduced a mandatory provincial policy requiring
all school districts in British Columbia to explicitly restrict student use of personal digital devices in schools.
The policy was intended to reduce classroom distractions, support focused learning environments, foster
online safety, and promote consistency across districts.
In response, the Vancouver School District updated School Codes of Conduct in elementary and secondary
schools to include restrictions on Personal Digital Device use and adopted corresponding district level Code
of Conduct provisions effective July 1, 2024. Professional learning opportunities were provided to educators
prior to and throughout the initial year of implementation, and the restrictions were implemented in schools
beginning in September 2024.
School Codes of Conduct – Personal Digital Devices Agenda Package Page 15 of 35 Page 1 of 2Since implementation, the District has undertaken ongoing engagement activities to assess the impact of the
restrictions and to support continuous improvement. These activities have included district wide surveys,
staff and student focus groups, a student forum, and engagement with families. Feedback gathered during
the first year of implementation informed refinements in the second year, including strengthened
communication strategies, expanded professional learning supports, and increased emphasis on digital
literacy, online safety, student well being, and equity.
SUMMARY OF FEEDBACK RECEIVED
A presentation was provided to the Education Plan Committee outlining the policy background,
implementation timeline, engagement findings, and key areas of ongoing focus. Committee members
participated in small group discussions to provide input on the topic, including clarification of the motion,
implementation considerations, and perspectives on the motion.
Feedback from the group discussions showed broad agreement on the importance of addressing student
cellphone use and minimizing distractions during the school day. The discussions also clarified the current
restrictions already in place: elementary students are expected to keep personal digital devices out of sight
and on silent throughout the school day, while secondary students are expected to do so during instructional
time unless directed by a teacher to use them for educational purposes, with use currently permitted during
breaks and lunch.
As participants considered the proposed change to the current restrictions—meaning secondary students
would not be permitted to use cellphones during breaks and lunch—they identified a range of concerns that
would need to be addressed. They emphasized that any changes should be practical, clearly communicated,
and responsive to student needs. Key concerns focused on implementation and enforcement, particularly
during breaks and lunch, as well as the staffing, supervision, and logistical demands associated with stricter
restrictions.
The feedback also highlighted the need to balance any additional restrictions with student safety, equity, and
well-being. Participants noted that some students may need access to personal digital devices during the
school day for family communication, health, or other individual circumstances, and that further clarity may
be needed around exceptions, including what constitutes explicit permission from an educator.
There was strong consensus that education on the appropriate use of digital devices should remain central
to any approach, supported by clear expectations, consistent implementation, and ongoing engagement with
families.
Overall, the feedback supported a measured approach that prioritizes clarity, education, and consistent
implementation of existing expectations before considering additional restrictions. Student voice was
identified as an important factor in effective rollout and long-term success.
RECOMMENDATION
THAT the Board defer consideration of the motion at this time and request that additional refinements be
made to clarify key elements of the proposed direction, in order to support informed Board
decision-making.
School Codes of Conduct – Personal Digital Devices Agenda Package Page 16 of 35 Page 2 of 2ITEM 5.2.1
FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
Wednesday, May 13, 2026
Committee Report to the Board, May 27, 2026
The Chairperson of the Committee called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm. She acknowledged with deep
gratitude and respect, we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of
the xʷməθkʷəyə̓ m (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) & səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh
Nation).
This meeting was live-streamed, and both the audio and visual recordings were also available to the public
for viewing after the meeting. Footage from this meeting may be viewed from Canada or anywhere else in
the world.
A presentation detailing the flow of the agenda was shown throughout the meeting, a copy of which is on
file with the meeting agenda.
1. School Fee Schedules for 2026-2027
The Director of Instruction presented a report dated May 13, 2026, titled School Fee Schedules for 2026-
2027, a copy of which was on file with the meeting agenda. The report provides the fee schedule for each
elementary and secondary school in the Vancouver School District for the 2026-2027 school year.
He reviewed the legislative framework for school fees and explained the structure of the fee schedules
for elementary and secondary schools. He highlighted the District’s financial hardship provisions under
Administrative Procedure 506.
Committee members considered the recommendation in the report. There was unanimous consent from
committee members to forward the following recommendation to the Board for consideration:
THAT the Board approve the school fee schedules for the 2026-2027 school year.
2. 2025-2026 Third Quarter Financial Update
The Executive Director of Finance presented a report dated May 13, 2026, titled 2025-2026 Third Quarter
Financial Update, which provides the financial results for the nine months ended March 31, 2026,
compared to the amended budget.
The Executive Director of Finance reviewed the year-to-date financial results, providing a breakdown of
operating fund revenues and expenses and highlighed risks to revenue and expense in the fourth quarter.
Trustees and stakeholder representatives asked questions and provided feedback and staff provided
clarification on various points.
The meeting adjourned at 5:28 pm.
________________________________
Janet Fraser, Chairperson
Finance and Personnel Cmte. Report Agenda Package Page 17 of 35 Page 1 of 2Committee Members Present: Janet Fraser (Chair)
Alfred Chien (Vice-Chair)
Victoria Jung (Board Chair, ex-officio)
Committee Members Absent: Preeti Faridkot
Joshua Zhang
Other Trustees Present: Suzie Mah
Christopher Richardson
Senior Team Members Present: Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
Helen McGregor, Superintendent
Pedro da Silva, Associate Superintendent
Maureen McRae-Stanger, Associate Superintendent
Janis Myers, Associate Superintendent
Michel Gray, Executive Director, Employee Services
Lorelei Russell, Executive Director, Finance
Association Representatives Present: Suzette Magri, CUPE 15
Celena Benndorf, DPAC (joined the meeting at 5:11pm)
Tyson Shmyr, PASA
Benita Kwon, VASSA
Floyd Tuting, VDSC
Greg Canning, VEAES
S tephen Leung, VEPVPA
A lso Present: Aaron Davis, Director of Instruction
Cornelia Haack (recorder)
Finance and Personnel Cmte. Report Agenda Package Page 18 of 35 Page 2 of 2ITEM 5.2.2.1
May 27, 2026
TO: Board of Education
FROM: Finance and Personnel Committee
RE:
School Fee Schedules for 2026-2027
Reference to GOAL: Goal 2: The Vancouver School Board will increase equity by…
Education Plan
OBJECTIVE: Improving stewardship of the District’s resources by focusing on
effectiveness, efficiency, and sustainability.
INTRODUCTION
The School Fee Schedules for 2026-2027 are presented to the Board for approval at the recommendation
of the Finance and Personnel Committee. The committee met on May 13, 2026 to review the fee schedules
for VSB elementary and secondary schools.
BACKGROUND
Under Section 82 of the School Act, “a board must publish a schedule of the fees to be charged, and
deposits required and must make the schedule available to students and to children under section 13 and
to the parents of those students and children before the beginning of the school year.”
This report provides the fee schedule for each elementary and secondary school in the Vancouver School
District for the 2026-2027 school year.
The following are attached:
• Elementary School Fees
• Secondary School Fees
All elementary and secondary school fee schedules align with the standardized school fee schedules and
comply with legislation and Administrative Procedure 505. There are no registration fees associated with
enrolling in district choice programs in elementary schools.
All fee schedules contain the Vancouver School District’s Financial Hardship clause.
RECOMMENDATION
THAT the Board approve the school fee schedules for the 2026-2027 school year.
School Fee Schedules 2026-2027
Page 1 of 1
Agenda Package Page 19 of 35ITEM 5.3.1
POLICY AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
Wednesday, May 13, 2026
Committee Report to the Board, May 27, 2026
The Chairperson of the Committee called the meeting to order at 7:02 pm. She acknowledged with deep gratitude
and respect, we are honoured to be learning and unlearning on the ancestral and unceded lands of the
xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation) & səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation).
This meeting was live-streamed, and both the audio and visual recordings were also available to the public for
viewing after the meeting. Footage from this meeting may be viewed from Canada or anywhere else in the world.
A presentation detailing the flow of the agenda was shown throughout the meeting, a copy of which is on file with
the meeting agenda.
1. Evaluation of the School Liaison Officer Program
Associate Superintendent P. da Silva presented a report titled Evaluation of the School Liaison Officer
(SLO) Program and introduced external presenter, H. Wagnleithner from Qatalyst Research Group, who
had joined the meeting on Teams.
He provided a brief overview of the SLO Program, noting that Qatalyst Research Group had been engaged
as an independent third party to conduct a review of the renewed program, which was reintroduced in
schools in September 2023 in accordance with a Memorandum of Understanding between the Vancouver
School Board (VSB) and the Vancouver Police Department (VPD). He then asked Mr. Wagnleithner, to
present the findings of the Evaluation of the School Liaison Officer (SLO) Program Final Report, April
2026, a copy of which was on file with the meeting agenda.
Mr. Wagnleithner provided highlights of the report including an overview of the School Liaison Officer
(SLO) Program evaluation, the purpose of the evaluation, methodology, and limitations. He outlined key
findings related to program implementation and engagement, noting that planned changes to training,
officer presentation, and engagement approaches have been implemented and generally well received.
The presenter summarized findings on interactions and perceptions and key takeaways, including overall
support for the program among staff and students, and the program’s emphasis on prevention,
relationship-building, and limited reliance on enforcement measures.
Trustees and stakeholder representatives asked questions and provided feedback. Mr. Wagnleithner
answered questions regarding his report and presentation, and staff provided clarification on various
points.
Mr. Wagnleithner left the meeting at 7:42 pm.
2. Receipt of Advocacy Subcommittee Report
Trustee Richardson, Chair of the Advocacy Subcommittee, presented the May 6, 2026 Advocacy
Subcommittee report, a copy of which was on file with the meeting agenda. He informed the committee
that the focus of the May 6, 2026 meeting was to identify advocacy priorities for the Provincial Budget
2027 Consultation, then noted that key priorities remain consistent with prior years, including equitable
and sufficient funding for education, recruitment and retention, and facilities and infrastructure. He then
advised that the detailed advocacy points outlined in the report will inform the Board’s submission with
respect to the Provincial Budget 2027.
The report of the May 6, 2026 Advocacy Subcommittee meeting was received by consensus.
Policy and Governance
Agenda Package Page 20 of 35 Page 1 of 3
Committee Report3. Draft Policy Review - Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy
The Secretary Treasurer presented a report dated May 13, 2026 titled Draft Policy Review - Trustee
Remuneration and Expenses Policy. The report summarizes the feedback received at the February 11,
2026 Policy and Governance Committee meeting and includes an updated draft policy reflecting this
feedback and further refined by the Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy Ad Hoc Committee.
She reviewed the feedback collected, noting that the revised draft policy reflects the Committee’s
direction to base trustee remuneration on a comparative analysis of similarly sized school districts, using
average compensation as a benchmark. She addressed the input received regarding the need for clearer
differentiation in remuneration for leadership roles, with the draft proposing additional compensation for
the Board Chair and Vice Chair to better reflect increased responsibilities, and guidance on the types of
expenses trustees should be reimbursed for. She noted that feedback strongly supported the principle
that the Board should not determine its own compensation, and that remuneration decisions be made for
a future term to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Secretary Treasurer invited participants to engage in small group discussions using guiding questions
focused on the clarity, comprehensiveness, and ease of implementation of the draft policy, the suitability
of the proposed remuneration approach, and the alignment of expense provisions with best practices.
She informed participants that all input received would be compiled and shared with the Ad Hoc
Committee and would inform refinements to the Draft Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy before
it is presented to the Board for approval consideration at the May 27, 2026 Board meeting.
Prior to commencing small group discussions, the Board Chair acknowledged the significant work of the
Committee over the past four years, noting the comprehensive review of over 20 policies and the resulting
improvements made to strengthen and sustain Board policy.
The live broadcast ended as Committee members, trustees and stakeholder representatives engaged in
small group discussion to gather input on the Draft Trustee Remuneration and Expense Policy.
The small group discussion is summarized below.
• Draft Policy Feedback
Overall, participants noted that the draft policy captures feedback from previous discussions and is
clear and comprehensible. Committee members highlighted areas for refinement including the order
of sections, clarification on potential duplication across policies and provisions referenced in multiple
sections. Further suggestions included further specificity regarding timing of expense claim
submissions and expense reimbursement procedures.
• Trustee Remuneration Structure
The approach included in the draft policy to benchmark against comparable, large districts and
average base trustee compensation was broadly supported. There was mixed feedback on the
proposed 20% (Vice-Chair) and 40% (Chair) differentials with some participants suggesting lower
alternatives.
Other discussion points included the use of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for adjustments.
• Trustee Expenses
Feedback focused on additional clarity on resources available for trustees including technology and
equipment, child care and clearer guidance on eligible and ineligible trustee expenses providing
specific examples. Participants also suggested further clarity in professional development provisions.
Policy and Governance
Agenda Package Page 21 of 35 Page 2 of 3
Committee ReportThe meeting adjourned at 8:24 pm.
________________________________
Lois-Chan Pedley, Chairperson
Committee Members Present: Lois Chan-Pedley (Chair)
Suzie Mah (Vice-Chair)
Janet Fraser
Christopher Richardson
Other Trustees Present: Victoria Jung
Senior Team Members Present: Flavia Coughlan, Secretary Treasurer
Helen McGregor, Superintendent
Pedro Da Silva, Associate Superintendent
Maureen McRae-Stanger, Associate Superintendent
J anis Myers, Associate Superintendent
Association Representatives Present: Suzette Magri, CUPE 15
Ishi Dinim, DPAC
Hayden O’Connor, PASA
Denise Clark, VASSA
Floyd Tuting, VDSC
Marjorie Dumont, VEAES (joined the meeting at 7:09 pm)
Trevor Wrinch, VEPVPA
A lso Present: Herman Wagnleithner, Qatalyst Research Group
Patricia MacNeil
Annette Vey-Chilton
C ornelia Haack (recorder)
Policy and Governance
Agenda Package Page 22 of 35 Page 3 of 3
Committee ReportITEM 5.3.2.1
May 27, 2026
TO: Board of Education
FROM: Policy and Governance Committee
RE: Policy 6 – Trustee Remuneration and Expenses
Reference to GOAL: Goal 2: The Vancouver School Board will increase equity by…
Education Plan
OBJECTIVE: • Improving stewardship of the district’s resources by focusing on
effectiveness, efficiency, and sustainability.
INTRODUCTION
Policy 6 – Trustee Remuneration and Expenses is presented to the Board for approval at the recommendation
of the Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy Ad Hoc committee.
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to Section 71 of the School Act, a board of education may authorize annual remuneration for the
Board Chair, Vice-Chair, and other trustees. At present, the VSB’s trustee remuneration and expenses
guidelines are set out in Appendix B of Policy 7 - Board Operations, rather than existing as a stand-alone
policy. While this approach establishes authority for remuneration, it does not include a defined framework
for determining appropriate remuneration levels over time beyond annual indexing.
Establishing a clear and transparent policy framework specific to trustee remuneration and expenses is an
important governance practice.
At the October 29, 2025, Public Board meeting, the Board approved a motion directing an Ad hoc Committee,
work with the Secretary Treasurer, to develop a draft Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy for review
by the Policy and Governance Committee and subsequent consideration by the Board.
At the February 11, 2026, Policy and Governance Committee meeting, participants discussed potential
options for structuring a mechanism to determine trustee remuneration levels within a new stand-alone
policy. The feedback collected was used to create a draft Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy. This
draft was refined by the Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy Ad Hoc Committee before it was
presented to the Policy and Governance Committee for consideration and discussion.
At the May 13, 2026, Policy and Governance Committee meeting, participants reviewed the Draft Policy 6 –
Trustee Remuneration and Expenses and provided feedback on what adjustments, if any, should be
considered before the policy is finalized and presented to the Board for approval.
The attached Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses was updated to reflect the feedback collected at
the May 13, 2026 meeting and refined by the Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Policy Ad Hoc Committee.
POLICY IMPACT
The adoption of Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses will create a mechanism for determining
trustee remuneration through a benchmarking process. The remuneration determined through this process
must be approved by Board motion, apply only to the subsequent Board term; and do not take effect during
the term in which the review is conducted.
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Agen da Package Page 23 of 35 Page 1 of 2The following table provides a review of trustee remuneration based on current trustee remuneration in
comparable large urban school districts in British Columbia.
Student
Board of Education Chair Vice-Chair Trustee
Enrolment
Abbotsford 20,668 $ 45,094 $ 39,891 $ 34,688
Burnaby 28,468 $ 36,602 $ 35,403 $ 34,202
Coquitlam 34,053 $ 76,714 $ 73,227 $ 69,740
Langley 26,552 $ 36,868 $ 35,662 $ 34,449
Richmond 23,422 $ 36,536 $ 34,737 $ 33,064
Surrey 81,047 $ 55,212 $ 51,611 $ 48,010
Vancouver 52,260 $ 40,315 $ 39,448 $ 37,215
AVERAGE $ 46,763 $ 44,283 $ 41,624
DRAFT Policy $ 54,100 $ 47,800 $ 41,600
RECOMMENDATION
That the Board approve Policy 6 - Trustee Remuneration and Expenses and further that the Board rescind
trustee remuneration and expenses guidelines set out in Appendix B of Policy 7 - Board Operations.
Attachment:
A. DRAFT Policy 6 - Trustee Remuneration and Expenses
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Agen da Package Page 24 of 35 Page 2 of 2Policy Handbook
ATTACHMENT A
Policy 6
TRUSTEE REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES
Purpose
The Board of Education of School District No. 39 (Vancouver) recognizes the significant responsibilities
undertaken by trustees in fulfilling their statutory, fiduciary, and governance duties. This
policy establishes clear, transparent, and consistent provisions respecting trustee remuneration and expense
reimbursement in accordance with the School Act and good governance practices.
Authority
This policy is established pursuant to section 71 of the School Act, which authorizes a board of education to
approve annual remuneration for trustees, including differentiated remuneration for the Chair and Vice-Chair;
and reasonable allowances for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of trustees’ duties.
Guiding Principles
Trustee remuneration and expenses shall:
• support effective governance and public accountability;
• be transparent, reasonable, and fiscally responsible;
• recognize the differing levels of responsibility and complexity associated with trustee roles; and
• be benchmarked against comparable large urban school districts in British Columbia.
Decisions regarding remuneration reflect the principle that the Board determines remuneration for future
Board terms, such that trustees do not establish or adjust compensation for their own benefit during the term
in which they serve.
1. Trustee Remuneration
1.1 Annual Remuneration
The Board may authorize annual remuneration for trustees, including the Chair and Vice-Chair.
Effective September 1 of each year, trustee remuneration shall be adjusted based on the annual percentage
change in the Vancouver Consumer Price Index (CPI), rounded to the nearest hundred, unless
otherwise determined by the Board in accordance with this policy.
Trustees are paid on a bi-weekly basis in accordance with District compensation practices.
1.2 Differentiation of Chair and Vice-Chair Remuneration
In establishing and reviewing remuneration differentials, the Board shall recognize the additional duties,
workload, leadership responsibilities, and complexity associated with the roles of Chair and Vice-Chair, as
outlined in Policy 5 - Role Of The Board Chairperson and Board Vice Chairperson.
2. Review of Trustee Remuneration
2.1 Timing of Review
During the last year of each Board term, the Board shall conduct a formal review of trustee remuneration.
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Page 1 of 5
Agenda Package Page 25 of 35Policy Handbook
2.2 Benchmarking and Determination of Remuneration
As part of the review, trustee remuneration shall be benchmarked against comparable large urban school
districts in British Columbia.
For the purposes of establishing remuneration:
• The base trustee remuneration shall be determined as the average of trustee remuneration in the
selected comparator school districts, rounded to the nearest hundred;
• The comparator group shall be approved by the Board and documented as part of the review process; and
• Benchmarking analysis and methodology shall be documented and made available to the Board.
In recognition of the additional responsibilities, leadership obligations, and complexity of the roles:
• The Chair’s remuneration shall be set at 30% higher than the base trustee remuneration, rounded to
the nearest hundred; and
• The Vice-Chair’s remuneration shall be set at 15% higher than the base trustee remuneration, rounded
to the nearest hundred.
2.3 Decision and Implementation Timing
Any changes to trustee remuneration resulting from the review shall:
• be approved by Board motion;
• apply only to the subsequent Board term; and
• not take effect during the term in which the review is conducted.
3. Trustee Expenses
3.1 General Principles
The Board may authorize reimbursement of reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by trustees in the
performance of their duties. Reimbursement shall be supported by appropriate documentation and
administered in accordance with procedures issued by the Office of the Secretary Treasurer.
3.2 Budget Approval and Administration
The Board shall approve an annual trustee expense budget as part of the district’s annual budgeting process.
Individual expense claims are administered by the Secretary Treasurer in accordance with established policies
and procedures and are not approved by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
3.3 Technology and Equipment
Trustees shall be provided with appropriate technology and equipment to support their work, including secure
access to Board materials, communications systems, and information platforms.
3.4 District Provided Insurance
Trustees ar‑e provided with liability insurance coverage for actions undertaken in good faith in the performance
of their official duties, through the Schools Protection Program (SPP). Further indemnification, including the
terms, conditions, and limitations of such coverage, is addressed in Policy 16 – Indemnification Bylaw.
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Page 2 of 5
Agenda Package Page 26 of 35Policy Handbook
3.5 Professional Development
Professional development expenses shall be reimbursed only where the education or training is directly
aligned with the trustee’s governance role and responsibilities.
Eligible professional development includes, but is not limited to:
• British Columbia School Trustees Association (BCSTA) conferences, annual general meeting, provincial
council and leaning opportunities;
• British Columbia Public Schools Employers’ Association (BCPSEA) conferences, annual general meeting,
provincial council and leaning opportunities for trustee representatives;
• Canadian School Boards Association (CSBA) conferences and learning opportunities.
Attendance, other than at BCSTA, BCPSEA and CSBA events, must be pre-approved by the Board Chairperson
for all trustees and by the Board Vice Chairperson for the Board Chairperson. All professional development and
learning opportunities must be arranged through the Office of the Secretary Treasurer.
Reimbursable expenses include:
• accommodation, economy airfare and other travel costs, verified by original receipts;
• a per-diem allowance, at a rate set by the District, to cover meals and incidental expenses while
traveling on Board business; and
• registration fees and related costs for approved trustee-relevant professional development.
Professional development expenses not eligible for reimbursement:
• accommodation expenses incurred in Metro Vancouver;
• expenses related to international conferences, study tours, or events not directly related to trustee
governance responsibilities;
• expenses for programs leading to academic credentials (including degrees or diplomas) or for general
educational or professional learning not specifically related to trustee governance functions.
3.6 Child Care
Trustees may occasionally need to pay for childminding services so they can attend Board meetings, VSB
committees, or other committees to which they have been appointed by the Board under Policy 9 – Board
Representatives.
Child care expenses can only be claimed for individuals who meet the CRA definition of an eligible child. The
claim for child care expenses must include receipt from the child care provider, date of the meeting, number of
hours of child minding claimed and the rate per hour.
Reimbursement is limited to the duration of the meeting attended plus reasonable travel time.
Reimbursement is not available for childminders residing in the same household as the child.
Reimbursement is based on the minimum wage in British Columbia, regardless of what is paid to the
childminder. Child care expenses reimbursed will be reported to the CRA as a taxable benefit.
To receive reimbursement for costs incurred, trustees must submit child care expense claims to the Secretary
Treasurer's Office on a monthly basis.
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Page 3 of 5
Agenda Package Page 27 of 35Policy Handbook
3.7 Ineligible Expenses
Trustees are not eligible for reimbursement of:
• vehicle mileage or personal transportation expenses;
• expenses not directly connected to Board-authorized duties;
• personal insurance expenses, including premiums or costs associated with privately owned vehicles,
personal liability insurance, travel insurance, or any other insurance coverage for which the Trustee is
individually responsible.
Legal Reference: Section 71 School Act
Related Policies: Policy 5 - Role Of The Board Chairperson and Board Vice Chairperson
Policy 9 – Board Representatives
Policy 16 – Indemnification Bylaw
ADOPTED: XX
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Page 4 of 5
Agenda Package Page 28 of 35Policy Handbook
APPENDIX A
This appendix provides supporting reference information for the implementation of Policy 6 – Trustee
Remuneration and Expenses. It is intended to enhance transparency and consistency in the application of the
policy by documenting the comparator group of large urban school districts in British Columbia used for
remuneration benchmarking; current trustee remuneration levels and professional development allocations;
and applicable reimbursement rates and guidelines for travel and authorized expenses.
The information contained in this appendix is administrative in nature and may be updated from time to time to
reflect Board-approved rates or other operational adjustments, without requiring amendment to the policy itself.
Comparable Large Urban School Districts in British Columbia
Student Enrolment
Board of Education
2025-2026
Abbotsford 20,668
Burnaby 28,468
Coquitlam 34,053
Langley 26,552
Richmond 23,422
Surrey 81,047
Vancouver 52,260
Trustee Remuneration
As of September 1, 2025, annual trustee remuneration is:
• Chair: $40,315
• Vice-Chair: $39,448
• Trustees: $37,215
• Student Trustee: $3,265
As of September 1, 2025, the annual trustee professional development allocation is $3,000.
Travel Reimbursement Rates
The maximum per diem rates for meals without receipts are:
• $20 Breakfast
• $25 Lunch
• $40 Dinner
On the date of departure, travel status must start before 7:00 a.m. to claim breakfast; before 12:00 noon to
claim lunch; and, on the date of return, travel status must end after 6:00 p.m. to claim dinner.
The maximum per diem rate for incidental expenses when a receipt is unavailable is up to $10.00 per day.
Childminding Reimbursement Rates
• Childminding by individuals under 18: current minimum wage.
• Childminding by individuals over 18: 130% of minimum wage.
• Childminding for children with disabilities or diverse abilities by a licensed Early Childhood Educator
(ECE): 160% of minimum wage (ECE license number must be included on the receipt).
Policy 6: Trustee Remuneration and Expenses Page 5 of 5
Agenda Package Page 29 of 35ITEM 5.3.3.1
May 27, 2026
TO: Board of Education
FROM: Policy and Governance Committee
RE: Policy 18 – Student Trustee
Reference to GOAL: Goal 2: The Vancouver School Board will increase equity by…
Education Plan
OBJECTIVE: • Improving stewardship of the district’s resources by focusing on
effectiveness, efficiency, and sustainability.
INTRODUCTION
One of the responsibilities of the Policy and Governance Committee is to ensure Board Policies are
reviewed at least once in a four-year term and that compliance with legislation, regulations and legislative
mandate is maintained.
The Policy and Governance committee met in November 2025 and reviewed Policy 18 – Student Trustee.
This report contains a summary of the feedback collected and how it was incorporated in the revised
policy.
This report includes a recommendation.
REVISED POLICY 18 – STUDENT TRUSTEE
The feedback from the Policy and Governance committee highlighted the need to update outdated
sections, clarify language for inclusivity, and ensure the election and participation processes align with
current practices. The revised Policy 18 – Student Trustee reflects the feedback from the committee.
RECOMMENDATION
THAT the Board approve Policy 18 – Student Trustee.
Attachment:
A. Policy 18 – Student Trustee
Policy 18 – Student Trustee Page 1 of 1
Agenda Package Page 30 of 35ATTACHMENT
Policy Handbook
Policy 18
STUDENT TRUSTEE
Policy Statement
The position of Student Trustee has been established by the Vancouver Board of Education (VBE) to encourage
open communication between the student body and the Board, increasing student engagement in School
District governance, and increase student participation in planning, policy and program development.
1. Role Description And Expectations
The Student Trustee:
1.1. Is not a member of the Board, is not entitled to vote on any matter before the Board or any of its
committees and does not have the statutory powers or duties of a School Trustee under the School
Act.
1.2. Will attend all regular public meetings of the Board but is not entitled to be present at any private
meetings.
1.3. May attend Board standing committee meetings, except private standing committee meetings.
1.4. Will participate with other trustees in discussions and provide a student perspective on matters
before the Board.
1.5. Will comply with the Student Trustee Conflict of Interest Guidelines in Appendix 1.
1.6. Is not entitled to move a motion but may submit a suggested motion on any matter to the Secretary
Treasurer’s Office no later than four (4) weeks prior to the scheduled Board meeting.
1.7. Shall have access to all information and resources provided to Board members (e.g. reports, training
sessions, etc.) with the exception of information related to matters which are being considered at a
private meeting or from which persons other than trustees are excluded.
1.8. Will present a Student Trustee report at the monthly regular board meeting.
1.9. Will report regularly to the students of the VBE, through the Vancouver District Students’ Council
(VDSC), the activities of the Board pertaining to public meetings of the Board and its committees.
1.10. Is encouraged to visit and meet with secondary school students in schools within the Vancouver
School District.
2. Eligibility And Qualifications
2.1. To qualify to be nominated and hold the position of Student Trustee, the person must meet the
following qualifications:
2.1.1. Be a student in regular attendance at a VBE secondary school.
2.1.2. Be 16 years of age or older by December 31 of the school year in which the student trustee holds
office.
Policy 18: Student Trustee Page 1 of 3
Agenda Package Page 31 of 35Policy Handbook
2.1.3. Have parental or guardian consent (if under 19 years of age).
2.1.4. Be a member of the Vancouver District Students’ Council (VDSC).
2.1.5. Make a prescribed oath of office, by oath or solemn affirmation, at the first meeting of their term
in office.
3. Election Of A Student Trustee
In order to elect a Student Trustee, the VDSC must follow the process outlined below.
3.1. The election for Student Trustee shall be conducted by the VDSC in May/June for the following school
year.
3.2. Each member of the VDSC is eligible to be nominated as a candidate for the position of Student
Trustee, subject to section 2 of this Policy.
3.3. Candidates interested in election as a Student Trustee will provide members of the VDSC with a
personal resume and/or a letter of intent at least forty-eight hours prior to the meeting of the VDSC
to elect the Student Trustee.
3.4. At the VDSC meeting to elect the Student Trustee, candidates will be provided the opportunity to
make a five minute presentation to the members of the VDSC.
3.5. Where there is more than one candidate, the VDSC will elect, by secret ballot, the Student Trustee
representative from among the candidates. Balloting will continue, dropping off the candidate with
the fewest votes, until one candidate achieves a simple majority.
3.6. VDSC will notify the VBE Secretary Treasurer of the person elected as Student Trustee.
3.7. In the event that the Student Trustee leaves office before the completion of their term, the VDSC will
conduct an election for a new Student Trustee for the balance of the term.
4. Term Of Office
4.1. The term of office for the Student Trustee will be one school year beginning September 1 of the year
in which the Student Trustee is elected and ending June 30 of the following year.
4.2. A Student Trustee may be re-elected by the VDSC and may serve a maximum of two years. The
Student Trustee is expected to serve only during the school year.
5. Disqualification Of A Student Trustee
5.1. A Student Trustee will be disqualified from service if they:
5.1.1. Cease to be a student in a School District No. 39 (Vancouver) school.
5.1.2. Are absent from three consecutive regular meetings of the Board without permission from the
Board.
5.1.3. Are convicted of an offence under the Criminal Code of Canada or under the Youth Criminal
Justice Act.
5.2. A student trustee may be disqualified from service if they:
Policy 18: Student Trustee Page 2 of 3
Agenda Package Page 32 of 35Policy Handbook
5.2.1. Breach the confidentiality of the Board.
5.2.2. Are suspended from school for a serious violation of the Code of Conduct or other Board policies
or school rules.
6. Honorarium And Support For The Student Trustee
6.1. The Student Trustee will receive an honorarium as determined by the Board from year to year. This
honorarium will be pro-rated if a Student Trustee does not serve for the full term.
6.2. The Student Trustee will be reimbursed for any appropriate receipted expenses incurred as a function
of the role, including transportation costs in accordance with Board policies. Further, the Student
Trustee will be supported in attending conference opportunities that relate to the role, with a budget
for conference expenses to be approved by the Board.
6.3. The Student Trustee will be supported in attending one District conference opportunity per school
year that relates to the role, if they so choose to attend, with a reasonable budget that aligns with
Board conference expense guidelines.
7. Responsibilities Of The Board Chairperson And Superintendent Of Schools
7.1. The Board Chairperson shall appoint one elected trustee to act as a mentor for the Student Trustee.
7.2. The Superintendent of Schools or designate shall meet with the Student Trustee and their
parent/guardian at the beginning of the school year to discuss their responsibilities and participation.
7.3. The Superintendent of Schools or designate shall meet with the VDSC at the beginning of the school
year to orient them to the role and expectations of Student Trustee to the Board and to encourage
VDSC student representatives to support the Student Trustee.
7.4. The Board Chairperson shall acknowledge the service of the Student Trustee to the Board at the last
Board meeting of the Student Trustee’s term.
7.5. The Board Chairperson and the Superintendent of Schools shall organize an annual liaison meeting
between the Board and VDSC.
7.6. The Superintendent or designate shall provide orientation to the Student Trustee and support the
Student Trustee in fulfilling their duties.
Legal Reference: Section School Act
Adopted: September 24, 2018
Amended: September 1, 2022
May 27, 2026 DRAFT
Policy 18: Student Trustee Page 3 of 3
Agenda Package Page 33 of 35ITEM 6.0
STUDENT TRUSTEE REPORT
Date of Meeting: May 27, 2026
Student Trustee: Freddie Zhang
As we head into the final stretch of the school year, something that has really stood out to me is how much student
leadership across the District continues to grow, both in size and purpose. Over the past month, I have had the chance
to see students create spaces for connection, creativity, advocacy, learning, fun, and care.
One example of this was VDSC’s district-wide 2016 throwback spirit day. What started as a fun idea quickly became
something bigger, with schools across the District participating, leaning into nostalgia and also sharing at the same time.
School student councils have also been leading initiatives that reflect issues students care about and create positive
change. Schools have held mental health-focused art showcases, indoor track meets, Asian Heritage Month celebrations,
and Red Dress Day commemorations honouring missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls. These projects
happening across different schools show the importance of student leaders learning from one another and sharing ideas
across the District.
This month also included an opportunity that was personally meaningful to me. On May 7th, I attended the City of
Vancouver’s proclamation of Child and Youth Mental Health Day alongside elected officials and representatives from
organizations including Vancouver Coastal Health, FamilySmart, the First Nations Health Authority, and Crisis Centre BC.
Mental health continues to be a topic that students frequently raise through VDSC meetings, and it has shaped much of
our work this year, including the Mindfulness Minute Toolkit shared with schools. Being part of the City’s proclamation
was a reminder that this work extends beyond schools, and that student voice has an important role in conversations
about youth well-being and support.
Another highlight this month has been the launch of VDSC’s annual Arts Gala. This year’s theme, What Comfort Looks
Like for Students, has already inspired submissions ranging from visual art and writing to music and performance pieces.
What makes the Gala special is that it gives students an opportunity to share experiences and perspectives in creative
ways. Once submissions close, district-wide voting will open, and we are looking forward to seeing the different ways
students interpret the theme.
Looking ahead, VDSC is also preparing for the Student Leadership Grants Showcase. Throughout the year, the Fund has
supported student-led projects across the District and helped turn ideas into initiatives within school communities. These
grants make student-led initiatives more accessible across schools. The Showcase offers students an opportunity to
present their learning through the project process, reflect on what they have learned, and share the impact their work
has had on their communities. It’s a celebration of student learning, and we are very grateful to the Board for continuing
to support these opportunities.
This month also marked an important transition within VDSC, as elections for next year’s Senior Executive Team were
completed. Over the coming weeks, we will work with the incoming team through transition planning.
Finally, from May 21st–24th, I had the privilege of attending the Ontario Student Trustees’ Association Annual General
Meeting. Throughout the conference, students from across the country discussed topics including policy, equity, student
well-being, reconciliation, and advocacy. One theme that stood out to me was the importance of continuing to strengthen
the incorporation of student voice and agency into decision-making processes. I appreciated the opportunity to bring
many of those ideas back to our General Meeting yesterday for further discussion.
As the school year wraps up, VDSC’s focus continues to be on strengthening student voice and agency across the District
by building leadership capacity, sharing ideas across schools, and ensuring student perspectives continue to inform
decisions. I would like to thank the Board for its continued support of student leadership, in its many forms. The work
shared in this report would not be possible without that support.
Student Trustee Report Agenda Package Page 34 of 35 Page 1 of 1ITEM 7.1
LIAISON TRUSTEE REPORT
Name of Committee/Organization: City of Vancouver Urban Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee
Liaison Trustee: Janet Fraser
Date of Meeting: March 30, 2026
Topics Discussed Most Relevant to the VSB:
Committee / Organization Actions:
Motion:
WHEREAS during the 2026 FIFA World Cup, the City of Vancouver is enforcing a 2 km “controlled access
zone” in which FIFA-accredited branding is strictly protected.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Urban Indigenous Peoples’ Advisory Committee recommend that
Council direct that for the duration of the purchase contracts for City-purchased advertising spaces within
the controlled access zone during FIFA World Cup, an appropriate and impactful portion of those
advertising spaces be used to fulfill the City of Vancouver’s role to communicate avenues for FWC26
participants and personnel to access remedy for any human rights-related impact they may experience,
per Vancouver’s Host City Human Rights Action Plan.
APPROVED BY CONSENSUS
Subsequently, Committee members discussed the following topics:
• HAVN Spa Rezoning Application (1905 Ogden Avenue)
• TransLink Equity Framework
*I was not able to attend this meeting as it was at the same time as a VSB board meeting, so the report is
from the meeting minutes.
Page 1 of 1
Liaison Trustee Report
Agenda Package Page 35 of 35