REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
APRIL 1, 2026
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, April 1, 2026, at 9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the Part 14
of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Peter Meiszner, Chair* (Leave of Absence, Civic
Business, 1 – 2:30 pm)
Mayor Ken Sim*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato, Vice Chair*
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Armin Amrolia, Deputy City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Julie Emmerson, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
CONDOLENCES - Mr. Thind
The Mayor expressed condolences to the Sikh community on the passing of Mr. Thind.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 2
PROCLAMATION – Sikh Heritage Month
The Mayor proclaimed the month of April 2026 as Sikh Heritage Month in the city of Vancouver,
and invited community members to the podium to accept the proclamation and say a few words.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee adopt Reports 2 to 4 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND REPORT 2
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
REPORTS
1. 2026 Animal Welfare Grant
January 26, 2026
Staff from Development, Buildings and Licensing responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve five (5) Animal Welfare Grants totalling $15,034, the total amount
allocated in the 2026 budget for this purpose, to the following organizations:
i. Paws for Hope Animal Foundation $7,000
ii. VOKRA (Vancouver Orphan Kitten Rescue Association) $4,034
iii. Atira Women’s Resource Society $2,000
iv. Greyhaven Exotic Bird Sanctuary $1,000
v. Wildlife Rescue Association of BC $1,000
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11497)
(Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
2. 245 East Broadway Street – Vernon Block – Façade Grant
March 10, 2026
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve a facade grant of up to $100,000 to the owner of lands
having a civic address of 245 East Broadway (PID: 023-519-690; Lot A Block 52Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 3
District Lot 200A Plan 29514 (the “Property”)), for the rehabilitation of two
principal façades of the building known as the Vernon Block (the “Heritage
Building”), which is listed on the Vancouver Heritage Register and protected by a
Council approved Designation By-law, as contemplated by Combined Permit DB-
2023-01433 (the “Application”). The source of funds is the 2026 Capital Budget
for the Heritage Façade Rehabilitation Program.
B. THAT the owner of the Property, referenced in A above, KW One Holdings Ltd
(the “Owner”), be required to enter into an agreement with the City, to be
registered against title to the Property as a covenant under section 219 of the
Land Title Act, to ensure continued maintenance of minimum fifteen years, the
rehabilitation to be overseen by a qualified heritage consultant, and protection of
the heritage property during the rehabilitation work.
C. THAT the agreement described in B above shall be prepared, registered and
given priority over all existing financial charges, to the satisfaction of the Director
of Legal Services in consultation with the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability.
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of A to C above unless and until all legal documentation has been executed and
delivered by respective parties.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11508)
3. Housekeeping and Miscellaneous Updates to the Vancouver Building By-law and
the Electrical By-law
March 18, 2026
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, various housekeeping amendments, and
minor technical changes to the Vancouver Building By-law No. 14343, as
attached in Appendix A of the Report dated March 18, 2026, entitled,
“Housekeeping and Miscellaneous Updates to the Vancouver Building By-law
and the Electrical By-law”, to come into force and take effect upon enactment;
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council, generally as set
out in Appendix A of the above noted-report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, various housekeeping amendments, and
changes to the Electrical By-law No. 5563, as attached in Appendix B of the
Report dated March 18, 2026, entitled, “Housekeeping and Miscellaneous
Updates to the Vancouver Building By-law and the Electrical By-law”, to come
into force and take effect upon enactment;Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 4
FURTHER THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to bring forward
the necessary by-law amendments for enactment by Council, generally as set
out in Appendix B of the above-noted report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11509)
4. Contract Award for the Provision of a Recreation Management System
March 16, 2026
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement for the Provision of a
Recreation Management System for Vancouver Park Board with The Active Network,
Ltd. with an initial three-year term and three additional two-year optional extensions (the
“Agreement”), for an estimated contract value of $1,080,000 plus applicable taxes over
the initial three-year term and estimated total contract value of $3,744,000 plus
applicable taxes over the entire nine-year term, which will be funded from the Park
Board Operating Budget;
FURTHER THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of the
Vancouver Park Board.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11510)
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Supporting the 2026 Vancouver Vaisakhi Parade and Festival
The Mayor introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from five speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
* * * * *
During discussion, Chair Meiszner ceded the Chair to Vice-Chair Dominato to provide
comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREASStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 5
1. Vaisakhi has long been celebrated as a spring harvest festival in the Punjab
region of South Asia, bringing communities together for centuries in celebration
of renewal, gratitude, and shared prosperity;
2. The Khalsa Diwan Society of Vancouver, founded in 1906, has long served as a
cornerstone community institution supporting spiritual life, cultural traditions, and
community service for generations of Sikh Canadians;
3. The Vancouver Vaisakhi Parade, organized annually by the Khalsa Diwan
Society at the Ross Street Temple in South Vancouver, has grown into one of
Vancouver’s largest single-day festivals, attracting up to 250,000 attendees each
year;
4. The 2026 Vancouver Vaisakhi Parade will take place on Saturday, April 11,
2026, beginning at the Khalsa Diwan Society on Ross Street and featuring
vibrant floats, music, community performances, and the Sikh tradition of langar,
in which volunteers provide free food and refreshments to all attendees;
5. The festival is free and open to everyone and is widely enjoyed by the broader
Vancouver community, bringing together residents and visitors in a spirit of
inclusivity, hospitality, and service;
6. The event requires extensive planning and coordination, including traffic
management and public safety planning, with road closures anticipated from
approximately 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. affecting major corridors in South
Vancouver such as Main Street and Fraser Street;
7. The Khalsa Diwan Society of Vancouver has proudly organized the parade and
festival for 47 years, supported by community and sponsors;
8. The costs associated with organizing large public events, particularly security
and safety requirements, have increased significantly in recent years;
9. In order to help manage rising operational costs while ensuring the continued
success of the celebration, organizers have modified the 2026 parade route to
avoid the most costly security segment along Marine Drive, instead proceeding
north along Ross Street and west along 57th Avenue toward Main Street; and
10. Despite strong fundraising efforts by the Khalsa Diwan Society, the organizers
have identified a budget shortfall of approximately $45,000 for the 2026 parade
and festival.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council approve a one-time extraordinary grant of up to $45,000 from the
City’s 2026 Operating Budget, or another funding source deemed appropriate by
the General Manager of Finance, to the Khalsa Diwan Society of Vancouver toStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 6
assist with costs associated with organizing and delivering the 2026 Vancouver
Vaisakhi Parade and Festival scheduled for Saturday, April 11, 2026;
FURTHER THAT this grant support is extraordinary and one-time in nature
intended solely to address the unique circumstances arising this year.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the grant agreement, referenced
in A above, for the associated amount that includes terms and conditions that are
consistent with the intentions of the motion entitled, “Supporting the 2026
Vancouver Vaisakhi Parade and Festival”, that satisfy the City’s Director of Legal
Services, and that disburse the grant described in the same motion to the City
Manager or their designate.
C. THAT Council deem the Khalsa Diwan Society to be an organization contributing
to the culture, beautification, health or welfare of the City, pursuant to Section
206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, in respect of the grant referenced in A above.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11498)
2. Fostering Inclusive and Diverse Democracy Through Harassment Prevention
Councillor Orr Introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Democracy is strongest when everyone is able to participate fully and safely, and
contribute to the well-being of their community;
2. Across Canada and in neighbouring jurisdictions, democratic discourse and
respectful debate are deteriorating at all orders of government, with elected
officials increasingly subject to threats, harassment, and abuse;
3. This toxic climate disproportionately affects women, Indigenous peoples,
racialized individuals, and members of other equity-deserving groups,
discouraging them from seeking or remaining in elected office and depriving
communities of diverse perspectives and effective leadership;
4. Social media platforms have amplified disrespectful dialogue, personal attacks,
disinformation, and toxic engagement directed at those in public life;Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 7
5. Better decisions are made when democracy is respectful and constructive and
when the voices of diverse genders, identities, ethnicities, races, sexual
orientations, ages, and abilities are heard and represented around council tables;
6. In 2024, women elected representatives from across Halton Region in Ontario
formed a group called H.E.R. (Halton Elected Representatives), which pledged to
speak out against harassment and negativity in politics and called on elected
officials to uphold the highest standards of conduct;
7. H.E.R. Halton, led by Burlington Mayor Marianne Meed Ward, launched a
national campaign called Elect Respect to promote healthy democratic
engagement and safe, inclusive, respectful environments for all elected officials
and candidates;
8. As of March 2026, the Elect Respect pledge has been endorsed by over 228
elected officials, 54 municipalities, and 13 boards across Canada, though no
British Columbia municipality has yet adopted the resolution; and
9. With a general municipal election scheduled for October 2026, endorsing the
Elect Respect campaign signals Vancouver’s commitment to a respectful and
inclusive electoral process for all candidates and voters.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Vancouver City Council endorse the Elect
Respect pledge and commits to:
a. Treating others with respect in all settings. Public, private, and online;
b. Rejecting and speaking out against harassment, abuse, and personal attacks;
c. Focusing debate and political discussion on ideas and policies, not personal
attacks;
d. Helping build a supportive culture where people of all backgrounds feel safe to
run for and hold office, and to engage in public life;
e. Calling on relevant authorities for the protection of elected officials who face
abuse or threats; and
f. Modelling integrity and respect in public life, holding one another to the highest
standards of conduct;
FURTHER THAT Vancouver City Council call on elected officials, candidates, elector
organizations, and community members to support the Elect Respect campaign and sign
the online pledge at www.electrespect.ca.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11499)Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 8
3. Reversing the Costly Ban on Supportive Housing
Councillor Bligh Introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from seven speakers who spoke in support and 28 speakers who spoke
in opposition of the motion.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 11:59 am and reconvened at 1:08
pm with Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung in the Chair.
At 2:26 pm, following the conclusion of public speakers, Chair Meiszner assumed the chair.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is in a housing crisis, where it is increasingly difficult to afford housing
whether one earns $200,000 per year or $20,000 per year;
2. Homelessness is getting worse, with a 9% increase in individuals experiencing
homelessness from 2023 to 2025 in Greater Vancouver, including a 26%
increase in unsheltered homelessness in Vancouver alone;1
3. Local businesses are closing, in part because high crime rates are making it
unaffordable to keep the doors open;2
4. There can be no solution to the affordability crisis without building more
affordable homes, no solution to the homelessness crisis without building more
supportive homes, and no solution to the drug crisis without investing more in
community services;
5. Supportive housing provides not only homes, but integrated services that are
essential to reducing homelessness and drug use, and improving community
safety;
1 2025 Point-in-Time Homeless Count in Greater Vancouver: Preliminary Data Report, prepared for Lu’ma
Native Housing Society by Homelessness Services Association of BC in consultation with the IHSC (July
2025). Vancouver, BC
2 https://www.ctvnews.ca/vancouver/article/vpd-lease-of-former-london-drugs-property-means-tax-
revenue-loss-for-city-of-vancouver/Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 9
6. On February 18, 2026, the Carney government provided funding for 700 new
supportive housing units across BC - and the current mayor’s policy means none
of the funding will be invested in Vancouver;
7. On February 26, 2025, the Ken Sim-led majority on Council adopted a motion
titled “Temporarily Pausing Net-New Supportive Housing Investments in
Vancouver to Prioritize Replacing Existing Stock and Promoting Regional
Equity”, which directed staff to pause City contributions of land or funding for
homelessness response supportive housing indefinitely; and
8. The ban on net-new supportive housing investments needlessly exacerbates the
issues already faced by the limited supply of social and supportive housing that
exists.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to enable City contributions
of land or funding for homelessness response supportive housing developments, to
allow the provincial and federal government to place supportive housing investments in
Vancouver, including projects focused on replacing existing SRO buildings or TMH
projects.
LOST (Vote No. 11500)
(Councillors Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed)
(Councillors Dominato and Meiszner absent for the vote)
4. Creating a City of Vancouver Festival Support Fund
Councillor Fry Introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from two speakers who spoke in support and one speaker who spoke to
other aspects of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. In Vancouver, community events and festivals help define the vibrancy of the
city;
2. The City of Vancouver benefits significantly from the economic, social, cultural,
and community-building impacts of festivals including economic activity, tourism,
social cohesion, neighbourhood vibrancy, reconciliation, and cultural expression;
3. Vancouver’s free festivals and cultural events are facing unprecedented financial
strain, with long-standing events reporting rising costs, loss of sponsors, unstable
or declining government support, and burdensome permit requirementsStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 10
threatening their long-term viability. The event sector has broadly warned of a
province-wide “looming crisis” affecting arts, cultural, and community events;3
• The Celebration of Light, one of Vancouver’s largest and longest-
running free public events, has been cancelled indefinitely due to rising
production costs, loss of federal funding, major reductions in provincial
support, and declining private-sector investment. Organizers reported that
the festival is no longer financially sustainable without stable, long-term
public funding;
• Vancouver Car Free Day events across Main Street, Commercial Drive,
and Denman Street were to be cancelled for 2026, with organizers citing
rising operational costs, changes to grant funding, and uncertain financial
support;
• The Vancouver International Jazz Festival has publicly appealed for
donations, citing a 41% budget decline since 2019, loss of major
sponsors, and continued financial instability, challenging its ability to
continue its free outdoor programming;
• Vancouver Pride festival has reported financial strain and programming
constraints after losing as much as half its corporate sponsorship in 2025
and faced with increasing cost pressures;4
• The African Descent Festival was cancelled in 2025 after the Park
Board withheld permits, citing unresolved financial issues from prior
years. The major cultural event typically draws tens of thousands and
plays an important role in celebrating Vancouver’s African diaspora;
• Khatsahlano’s organizer referenced the shaky funding system affecting
long-running free festivals, lamenting many Vancouver events get
cancelled before their value is recognized, adding “Event organizers want
the funding support before having to be rescued;”
• In the last two years Vancouver Mural Fest shut down completely, while
Celtic Fest was forced to drastically scale down its free event, both cited
increased costs, loss of sponsorship and senior government funding;
4. Following direction from Council’s 2022 resolution “Making it Easier to Host
Outdoor Festivals and Events in Vancouver” the City of Vancouver has worked to
reduce the financial and permitting burdens for festivals, yet costs including city-
mandated security expenses continue to rise unsustainably;
5. The City of Vancouver financially supports festivals and events through Arts and
Culture Grants (administered through ACCS) and offsets to City costs
(administered through ENG) amounting to cumulatively more than $2m in
3 From street parties to fireworks: Why Vancouver’s festival scene is on shaky ground | Vancouver
Sun, March 9, 2026 https://vancouversun.com/news/why-vancouver-festival-scene-on-shaky-ground
4 Vancouver Pride Parade still on despite losing nearly half its sponsors | Vancouver Sun July 10, 2025
https://vancouversun.com/news/vancouver-pride-parade-loses-sponsorsStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 11
support annually. Accordingly, the City’s Special Events Policy (ADMIN-031) 5
outlines conditions for City support, the function of the Festival Expediting Staff
Team (FEST), and the City’s maximum contribution to Special Event Costs for
Free Special Events ($75,000);
6. Despite earlier interventions by the City of Vancouver to support free festivals
with grants, offsets, and streamlined permitting, local event producers are
struggling, and in recent weeks Council has stepped in with ad-hoc emergency
funding to support a new fireworks festival ($2m) and Car Free Day ($30,000);
and
7. Many Canadian cites have dedicated festival support funding programs including
Ottawa, Calgary, Edmonton, Burnaby, and Winnipeg. Of note, Toronto (Cultural
Festivals Funding Program6) funds scores of festivals of varying sizes and scope;
When their local free annual community event the Harmony Arts Festival was
faced with a financial strain the District of West Vancouver, repositioned itself as
front‑of‑house producer, providing significant financial and logistical support, to
ensure the festival could return.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to consult with stakeholders and festival organizers,
and report back on the development of a City of Vancouver Festival Support
Fund, designed to provide stable, transparent, multi-year financial support for
qualifying cultural festivals, community celebrations, and major public events to
insulate free festivals from rising cost pressures;
FURTHER THAT staff report back by Q3 2026 with Fund recommendations for
Council’s consideration and as a regularized budget line item that include:
• Funding sources and a sustainable budget model;
• A tiered funding structure recognizing festivals of varying scales and
community impact;
• Transparent, criteria‑based grants to cover last‑mile city‑related hard
costs when a free festival can show community benefit and a realistic
budget gap;
• Interim top-up grants (above the $75,000 maximum) to Special Event
Costs for Free Special Events for high‑attendance events facing
inflationary line items to prevent cancellation;
5 Special Events Policy | City of Vancouver
https://policy.vancouver.ca/ADMIN031.pdf
6 Cultural Festivals Funding Program | City of Toronto
https://www.toronto.ca/services-payments/grants-incentives-rebates/arts-culture-grants/cultural-festivals-
funding-program/Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 12
• Options for matching-fund programs to leverage provincial and federal
contributions;
• Options that explore bridge-funding repayable loans; and
• Mechanisms to ensure accountability, transparency, equity, and cultural
inclusion.
B. THAT The City advocate to the Province of British Columbia for the urgent
restoration and stabilization of the B.C. Fairs, Festivals and Events Fund
(BCFFE), given its significance to Vancouver’s event ecosystem, recent
cancellations, and the warnings issued by dozens of major festivals
province-wide.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
That the following be added as Clause C:
C. THAT Council request the Mayor, on behalf of Council, advocate to the
Government of Canada, including through the Department of Canadian Heritage,
for the restoration and expansion of federal funding programs supporting major
festivals and cultural events, recognizing their significant economic, cultural, and
tourism impacts, and the growing financial pressures facing such events in
Vancouver and across Canada.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11501)
(Councillor Dominato absent for the vote)
* * * * *
During discussion on the amended motion, Chair Meiszner ceded the Chair to Vice-Chair
Dominato to provide comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11502).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to consult with stakeholders and festival organizers,
and report back on the development of a City of Vancouver Festival Support
Fund, designed to provide stable, transparent, multi-year financial support for
qualifying cultural festivals, community celebrations, and major public events to
insulate free festivals from rising cost pressures;Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 13
FURTHER THAT Staff report back by Q3 2026 with Fund recommendations for
Council’s consideration and as a regularized budget line item that include:
• Funding sources and a sustainable budget model;
• A tiered funding structure recognizing festivals of varying scales and
community impact;
• Transparent, criteria-based grants to cover last-mile city-related hard
costs when a free festival can show community benefit and a realistic
budget gap;
• Interim top-up grants (above the $75,000 maximum) to Special Event
Costs for Free Special Events for high-attendance events facing
inflationary line items to prevent cancellation;
• Options for matching-fund programs to leverage provincial and federal
contributions;
• Options that explore bridge-funding repayable loans; and
• Mechanisms to ensure accountability, transparency, equity, and cultural
inclusion.
B. THAT The City advocate to the Province of British Columbia for the urgent
restoration and stabilization of the B.C. Fairs, Festivals and Events Fund
(BCFFE), given its significance to Vancouver’s event ecosystem, recent
cancellations, and the warnings issued by dozens of major festivals province-
wide.
C. THAT Council request that the Mayor, on behalf of Council, advocate to the
Government of Canada, including through the Department of Canadian Heritage,
for the restoration and expansion of federal funding programs supporting major
festivals and cultural events, recognizing their significant economic, cultural, and
tourism impacts, and the growing financial pressures facing such events in
Vancouver and across Canada.
5. Strengthening Vancouver’s FIFA World Cup 2026 Human Rights Action Plan with
Measurable Standards, Reporting, and Monitoring
Councillor Fry Introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from six speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREASStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 14
1. Vancouver’s 57-page Draft Host City Human Rights Action Plan (Version 1, Feb.
19, 2026) acknowledges key human rights risks associated with hosting seven
FIFA World Cup matches, including disproportionate impacts on unhoused
people, people with disabilities, workers, racialized residents, and communities in
the Downtown Eastside and Chinatown;
2. Several community organizations, including the BC Civil Liberties Association,
the BC Poverty Reduction Coalition, and neighbourhood groups have raised
significant concerns that the draft plan relies heavily on existing laws and policies
rather than introducing new, specific, measurable, and funded protections and
mitigations;
3. Some community advocates have suggested that the draft plan does not
sufficiently prevent “Displacement of People Experiencing Homelessness and
Housing Precarity” (1.6.1) during the tournament, which may increase health and
potentially overdose risks by isolating people and separating them from health
and support services. The plan acknowledges a dearth of daytime respite
spaces;
4. The draft plan lacks clear metrics, targets, timelines, and independent monitoring
mechanisms, relying instead on general statements of intent without
accountability structures or performance indicators; and
5. Effective human rights protection requires ongoing, transparent reporting,
community accessible complaint pathways, and independent monitoring
systems, consistent with global best practice for megaevent human rights due
diligence.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council request the Vancouver FIFA Host City Committee revise the draft
Human Rights Action Plan to include a Human Rights Measurement Framework
to address the identified gaps in specificity and monitoring with:
a. Clear, measurable indicators for each human rights domain (e.g.,
displacement prevention, accessibility, worker rights, policing impacts,
freedom of assembly, public safety, unsheltered population wellbeing,
harm reduction for substance-users);
b. Baseline data, targets, and expected outcomes for the pretournament,
tournament, and post tournament periods; and
c. A Council reporting mechanism, using a standardized dashboard format.
B. THAT Council request the Vancouver FIFA Host City Committee revise the draft
Human Rights Action Plan to include specific protections for unhoused and
precariously housed residents, including:Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 15
a. A No Displacement commitment: prohibiting dispersion, seizure of
belongings, limited access to harm reduction services and sanctioned
drinking or substance use areas, or other displacement practices during
the World Cup in the absence of providing safe dignified alternatives;
b. Expanded low barrier day and night spaces, including respite centres,
storage services, and hygiene facilities, in recognition that existing
tenancy and shelter laws do not protect vulnerable unsheltered
populations;
c. Real time tracking reporting weekly data on shelter availability,
displacement incidents, and service access barriers; and
d. A requirement that Vancouver Fire Rescue Services, Engineering, VPD,
and Park Rangers document all interactions affecting unsheltered
residents and provide them to public reporting.
C. THAT Council direct staff to ensure there is a clear complaint and reporting
mechanism through 311, and ensure a rapid review team (potentially including
community organizations and advocates) to address urgent cases involving
safety, discrimination, harmful enforcement practices or displacement, with a
mandate to:
a. Track human rights conditions before, during, and after the tournament;
b. Issue public-facing rapid response briefings during the tournament period;
and
c. Report to Council with independent verification of human rights data.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT Council direct City staff, in partnership with the Urban Indigenous Peoples’
Advisory Committee and other human rights stakeholders, to include in the final version
of the Host City Human Rights Action Plan a requirement that, for the duration of the
City’s contracts for any advertising spaces it purchases within FIFA World Cup controlled
access zones, an appropriate and impactful portion of those advertising spaces be
dedicated to publicizing clear, accessible avenues for participants, personnel, and
visitors to report, seek support for, and obtain remedy for human-rights-related impacts
they may experience, consistent with the goals of the Vancouver Host City Human
Rights Action Plan and FIFA’s Human Rights Framework.
LOST (Vote No. 11503)
(Councillors Dominato, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague and Zhou opposed)
(Mayor Sim abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 16
* * * * *
At this point in the proceedings, Chair Meiszner ceded the chair to Vice-Chair Dominato to ask a
question and provide comments, and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
The amendment having lost, the motion was put and LOST (Vote No. 11504) with Councillors
Dominato, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed, and Councillor Kirby-
Yung absent for the vote.
6. Establishing a City Comptroller By-law for Budget Efficiency and Asset
Management Framework
Councillor Fry Introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Vancouver Charter requires Council to appoint a Director of Finance, and
authorizes Council to prescribe duties and establish administrative structures
consistent with that governance framework;
2. The City’s Auditor General (AG) is mandated through By-law and overseen via
the Auditor General Committee (AGC) to conduct financial, compliance, and
performance audits, and to administer the whistleblower program. The AG does
not provide pre-award financial controls, continuous in-year oversight, or manage
asset-management framework and assurance functions;
3. City of Vancouver high-budget departments such as Engineering, Parks and
Recreation, Real Estate and Facilities Management, and the Vancouver Police
Department (VPD) represent significant portions of the City’s annual operating
and capital spending, including major infrastructure, fleet, technology, and
facilities portfolios, requiring stronger front-end controls and cross-departmental
accountability;
4. Recent Council-approved recommendation and reporting from the Auditor
General "Audit of Recreation Facility Asset Management” confirms that
Vancouver’s asset management processes, including for major civic facilities,Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 17
require structured oversight, systematic data quality, and lifecycle planning to
ensure value-for-money, appropriate stewardship, and long-term reliability:7
The City should implement an asset management framework.
Foundationally the framework should include:
An asset management policy to set guiding principles when using asset
management practices to meet the requirements of the City’s strategic
plans; and,
An asset management strategy to define how the City’s strategic
objectives translate to levels of service and other objectives, along with
associated decision-making criteria, to guide the development of asset
management plans;
5. The City of Vancouver Mayor’s Budget Task Force (2024)8 highlighted the City’s
$500 million annual infrastructure funding deficit and called for optimizing the
City’s asset portfolio by implementing a robust Capital Asset Management
Framework (CAMF) that could include: determining service levels and lifecycle
costs; prioritizing capital projects; project execution and governance plans;
6. In Vancouver, independent oversight by the office of the Auditor General helps
hold the City accountable by conducting financial, compliance, and performance
audits to ensure proper stewardship of public funds and value for money in City
operations, but they do not run or oversee daily financial operations or capital
asset management;
7. A comptroller functions as an independent, day‑to‑day financial watchdog inside
City Hall. Their job would be to continuously check the City’s financial activity as
it happens. Other municipal practice, such as the New York City Comptroller9,
where the role also encompasses that of Vancouver’s Auditor General,
demonstrates that municipalities benefit from an independent officer responsible
for fiscal oversight and asset management, as well as public reporting and
performance auditing functions;
8. Municipal infrastructure governance best practice increasingly centralizes asset
management oversight to ensure consistent policy, risk control, lifecycle costing,
and transparent, comparable reporting across all asset classes. The FCM has
documented that municipalities are formalizing asset management governance
through cross-functional committees, and Council-facing accountability
mechanisms as part of the Municipal Asset Management Program (MAMP);
7 City of Vancouver Office of the Auditor General | Audit of Recreation Facility Asset Management
https://vancouver.ca/files/cov/2025-recreation-facility-asset-management-audit-report.pdf
8 City of Vancouver | Mayor’s Budget Task Force
https://council.vancouver.ca/20240123/documents/r1.pdf
9 Office of the New York City Comptroller Mark Levine
https://comptroller.nyc.gov/Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 18
9. BC’s Auditor General for Local Government (AGLG) guidance stresses that
effective municipal asset management requires clear governance roles,
adherence to policy and plans, ongoing oversight, and risk evaluation—all
hallmarks of a comptroller function providing independent assurance and
standardized reporting over asset decisions and across departments;
10. The City of Vancouver does not have a dedicated “Comptroller for Asset
Management” (or equivalent). Asset-related responsibilities and reporting are
distributed across divisions and funds (e.g., Engineering/Utilities, Real Estate via
the Property Endowment Fund and VAHEF), without a single, Council-facing
independent assurance role;
11. Recent Engineering Services correspondence to Council (e.g., on public realm
and streets investments) illustrates that operational asset activities are managed
within line departments, reinforcing the need for a central oversight function that
can independently assure consistency, risk controls, and long-term financial
sustainability across the City’s full asset portfolio; and
12. A Comptroller-style role in Vancouver could bring us in line with best practices,
close oversight gaps, breakdown silos and duplication, and improve transparency
and fiscal sustainability through independent review.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back on a draft
Comptroller By-law to establish a City Comptroller as an independent oversight officer
reporting directly to Council, with a mandate including:
a. Monitoring departmental expenditures, including in Engineering, Parks and
Recreation, REFM, and Policing providing corrective action oversight and
breaking down departmental silos;
b. Independent checks for compliance with Council-approved investment and debt
policies;
c. Developing a Citywide Asset-Management Framework, with the Comptroller to
be responsible for its oversight, annual reporting, and integration into budget and
capital planning cycles, including:
i. Citywide risk oversight;
ii. inventory integrity;
iii. asset condition assessment and criticality scoring;
iv. lifecycle costing and state-of-good-repair analysis;
v. alignment of departmental capital plans with long-term asset needs;Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 19
vi. annual public AMF report to Council, building on recent Auditor General
findings on deficiencies in civic facility asset management, in order to
compliment, not duplicate the AG’s performance audits; and
vii. Exclusion of performance audits (reserved for the Auditor General);
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to work with the Auditor General Committee Chair
and the Auditor General to prepare a Comptroller–AG Protocol ensuring:
a. non-duplication;
b. coordinated risk briefings; and
c. information-sharing for audit planning (at AG discretion).
LOST (Vote No. 11505)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Maloney abstained from the vote)
7. Funding Our Services with Taxes on Major Landholders and Investors
Councillor Orr Introduced the motion.
The Committee heard from eleven speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. On November 25, 2025, Vancouver City Council approved the 2026 Operating
and Capital Budget with a 0% property tax increase, following the passage of the
“Zero Means Zero” motion on October 8, 2025;
2. While a 0% tax increase provides uniform relief, it does not distinguish between
resident homeowners living in their only home and large-scale property holders,
corporate landlords, investors, and speculators who hold significant property
portfolios in Vancouver;
3. The City of Vancouver faces ongoing fiscal pressures including rising costs for
public safety, infrastructure renewal, Metro Vancouver and E-Comm 9-1-1 levies,
construction materials and labour, and collective agreements, and the 2026
Budget addressed these pressures through $120 million in budget reductions
and cutbacks rather than through revenue;
4. A blanket tax freeze benefits all property holders equally regardless of their stake
in the community, providing proportionally greater relief to holders of the mostStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 20
valuable and numerous properties while doing nothing to address the structural
mismatch between who bears the tax burden and who drives demand for city
services;
5. According to BC Assessment, the assessed value of a typical single-family home
in Vancouver declined approximately 5% for 2026, from $2.205 million to $2.092
million;
6. A targeted property tax rebate program for resident homeowners who own a
single property and whose property is assessed below $3 million would protect
the majority of Vancouver homeowners from any net tax increase, while ensuring
that large-scale property holders, non-resident owners, and high-value properties
contribute their fair share to the services and infrastructure they benefit from;
7. The City of Vancouver operates under the Vancouver Charter, which does not
currently provide explicit authority to administer a municipal property tax rebate
program with eligibility criteria based on the number of properties owned by a
taxpayer or their residency status;
8. The Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act (MEVA) is the established
legislative mechanism through which the Province of British Columbia grants
specific authorities to municipalities that fall outside their existing statutory
powers, and has been used previously to authorize Vancouver-specific tax and
housing programs including SRO vacancy control By-laws;
9. A targeted rebate program would align with the Province’s stated goals of
housing affordability, progressive taxation, and protection of resident
homeowners, as reflected in the Province’s existing Speculation and Vacancy
Tax, Home Owner Grant, and Additional School Tax on properties valued above
$3 million; and
10. The current Council has both the mandate and the responsibility to establish a
more equitable tax framework that does not simply defer necessary revenue
shortfalls to future councils.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council endorse in principle the creation of a Fair Share
Vancouver Property Tax Rebate Program, to be administered by the City, with
the following parameters:
i. The rebate shall be available to natural persons who are resident
homeowners occupying the property as their principal residence and who
own no more than one property within the City of Vancouver;
ii. Eligible properties must have a 2026 assessed value, as determined by
BC Assessment, of less than $3,000,000;
iii. The maximum individual rebate shall be set at an amount equal to the
increase in municipal property taxes payable on a property assessed atStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 21
the 2026 median residential assessed value that is attributable to the tax
rate increase referenced in clause B below; and
iv. The rebate program shall be funded from the additional revenue
generated by the property tax increase referenced in clause B below.
B. THAT Council direct staff to prepare an amendment to the 2026 property tax
rating bylaw to implement a 7% increase to the City’s general purposes
residential property tax levy for the 2026 taxation year, with the understanding
that eligible homeowners as defined in clause A shall receive a rebate equivalent
to the increase attributable to the rate change, such that eligible resident
homeowners experience no increase in municipal property taxes.
C. THAT Council direct the Mayor, on behalf of Council, to write to the Premier of
British Columbia, the Minister of Housing and Municipal Affairs, and the Attorney
General requesting that the Province introduce an amendment to the
Municipalities Enabling and Validating Act authorizing the City of Vancouver to:
i. Establish and administer a property tax rebate program with eligibility
criteria based on residency, principal residence occupancy, the number of
properties owned by the taxpayer, and assessed property value;
ii. Collect from property owners, or cross-reference with provincial data
systems including BC Assessment records, Land Title and Survey
Authority records, and Speculation and Vacancy Tax declarations, such
information as is necessary to verify eligibility; and
iii. Set differential effective tax rates for eligible and non-eligible residential
property owners for the purposes of administering the rebate program.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back within 30 days with:
i. A detailed program design including eligibility verification procedures,
administrative costs, and a revenue impact analysis;
ii. An estimate of the number of properties and property owners eligible for
the rebate under the proposed criteria;
iii. An estimate of the net additional revenue to the City after all rebates are
issued;
iv. A legal analysis of the authorities required under the Vancouver Charter
and any necessary MEVA amendments; and
v. An assessment of the feasibility of implementing the program for the 2026
taxation year, or alternatively, a timeline for implementation in the 2027
taxation year.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 22
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT Council refer the motion “Funding Our Services with Taxes on Major Landholders
and Investors” to staff, to report back before 2027 Budget considerations, with
mechanisms to support in principle and practice a Fair Share Vancouver Property Tax
Rebate Program, to be administered by the City and available to resident homeowners
in addition to residential rental properties and small business within an equity centered
framework and generally as outlined in the above-noted motion.
LOST (Vote No. 11506)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent from the vote)
The referral having lost, the motion was put and LOST (Vote No. 11507) with Councillors
Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Maloney, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed,
and Councillor Fry abstaining from the vote, and Councillor Bligh absent for the vote.
The Committee adjourned at 4.33 pm.
* * * * *COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
APRIL 1, 2026
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, April 1, 2026, at 4:33
pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on Policy
and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Tina Penney, Deputy City Clerk
Julie Emmerson, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, April 1, 2026
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:
Reports:
1. 2026 Animal Welfare Grant
2. 245 East Broadway Street – Vernon Block – Façade Grant
3. Housekeeping and Miscellaneous Updates to the Vancouver Building By-law and the
Electrical By-law
4. Contract Award for the Provision of a Recreation Management System
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Supporting the 2026 Vancouver Vaisakhi Parade and Festival
2. Fostering Inclusive and Diverse Democracy Through Harassment PreventionCouncil Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 2
3. Reversing the Costly Ban on Supportive Housing
4. Creating a City of Vancouver Festival Support Fund
5. Strengthening Vancouver’s FIFA World Cup 2026 Human Rights Action Plan with
Measurable Standards, Reporting, and Monitoring
6. Establishing a City Comptroller By-law for Budget Efficiency and Asset Management
Framework
7. Funding Our Services with Taxes on Major Landholders and Investors
Reports 1 to 4 and Council Members’ Motions 1 to 7.
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of April 1, 2026, as contained in Report 1 to 4, and
Council Member’s Motions 1 to 7, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND REPORTS 1 AND 2, AND MOTION 1
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
URGENT BUSINESS
1. Restoring Lifeguard Services at Key Vancouver Beaches
MOVED by Councillor Fry
WHEREAS
1. Access to safe, supervised beaches is a core public service that supports
recreation, public health, and community well-being for residents and visitors
throughout the summer months;
2. The Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation has historically provided seasonal
lifeguard services at high-use locations including Spanish Banks East and West,
Sunset Beach, and Third Beach;
3. These beaches are among the most heavily visited waterfront destinations in
Vancouver and play a significant role in supporting tourism, local businesses,
and outdoor activity;
4. It has been reported that the cost to restore seasonal lifeguard services at these
locations is approximately $600,000, representing a modest investment relative
to the scale of public use and safety benefit;
5. Vancouver City Council has adopted a “Zero Means Zero” budget framework,
which has been described as maintaining funding for core services; and
6. Seasonal lifeguard coverage is a frontline public safety service that aligns with
the definition of a core service and is essential to ensuring safe access to
Vancouver’s beaches.Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, April 1, 2026 3
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to allocate up to $600,000 within the
2026 operating budget, contingency, or appropriate reserves to the Vancouver
Board of Parks and Recreation in order to restore seasonal lifeguard services at
Spanish Banks East, Spanish Banks West, Sunset Beach, and Third Beach for
the 2026 summer season.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back with implementation timelines and
necessary approval to ensure lifeguard services are in place for the start of the
2026 beach season.
* * * * *
Following a brief recess, under Section 9.6(b) of the Procedure By-law, the Mayor ruled that the
motion does not qualify as urgent business as it will not impede any hiring deadlines.
Accordingly, Section 9.4(d) applies at which time Councillor Kirby-Yung called notice on the
motion, and the proposed motion will be brought forward at the next Standing Committee on
City Finance and Services meeting on April 22, 2026.
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Council adjourned at 4:47 pm.
* * * * *