PARK BOARD MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
⎯ May 4, 2026 ⎯
The following information is intended to provide a brief overview of the Board’s governance work
at the Committee and Board meetings. The full agenda, meeting materials, video clips and official
minutes can be found on the Park Board website.
STAFF REPORTS / PRESENTATIONS
Tree Inspection Policy
The Board approved the Tree Inspection Policy to replace the previous policy adopted in 1993.
The updated policy modernizes and consolidates how the City manages tree risk on public lands,
aligns with contemporary arboriculture best practices, and advances the Urban Forest Strategy
(2025) goal of managing trees for health and safety. The policy establishes a single, citywide
framework for tree inspection and risk mitigation, and expands the policy’s scope beyond street
and park trees to include civic lands, laneways, forested areas, shared trees, and inaccessible
trees to address gaps and inconsistencies across departments. It also provides a consistent,
defensible, and achievable approach to managing tree-related risk across the City while
supporting the long-term health and sustainability of Vancouver’s urban forest.
CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Digby highlighted recent events attended by commissioners:
- Liaison Roles – Chair Digby – Chair Digby attended meetings with the Vancouver City
Planning Commission and Dunbar and Kerrisdale Community Centre Associations.
- Burnwater Spring Sprint – Commissioner Jensen attended the Dragonboat BC Burnwater
Spring Sprint.
- Park Visits – Comr. Jensen – Since the last meeting, Commissioner Jensen visited English
Bay Beach.
- Meeting with Charlie Cuzzetto – Chair Digby met with Charlie Cuzzetto.
- BCRPA 2026 Symposium – Commissioner Jensen attended the BCRPA 2026
Symposium.
- BMO 8K Race – Chair Digby welcomed runners at the BMO 8K race in Stanley Park.
GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
The General Manager presented an overview of the GM’s report:
- New Stanley Park Transit Route – Engagement Launch – Public engagement for the new
bus route on Stanley Park Drive will begin in May 2026 with an online survey open May
11 – 31 and a pop-up event in the park on May 23. Feedback will inform the new bus route
design, bus stop locations, and TransLink’s service plan.
- Park Trails Accessibility Pilot – Staff are advancing the Park Trails Accessibility Pilot to
improve access and overall visitor experience for people with disabilities. Through this
pilot, visitors to Stanley Park, Queen Elizabeth Park, John Hendry Park and New Brighton
Park will be able to access high-quality, interactive accessibility parks to support trip
planning and real-time navigation. On-site audits will occur from May 4-8, with pilot
completion anticipated at the end of June.
Page 1 of 2 5-May-26- Council agenda items:
- Council to receive a referral report on May 5, 2026 titled “2026 Financing Growth
Update : Bill 16 Compliance Update to Density Bonus Provisions and Inclusionary
Zoning”.
- Council to receive a report on May 5, 2026 titled “City of Vancouver
Commemoration Framework”.
- Council to receive a report on May 5, 2026 titled “Quarterly Capital Budget
Adjustments - May 2026”.
- Council to consider a motion on May 6, 2026 titled “Supporting Community
Stewardship for Eco-Corridors and Neighbourhood Greenspaces”.
- Council to consider a motion on May 6, 2026 titled “Keeping the Session Rolling”
- Council to consider a motion on May 6, 2026 titled “Proactively Protecting Residents
from Dangerous Heat.
- Council to receive a report on May 7, 2026, titled “Audit of Community Grants”.
BOARD MOTIONS
Honouring Charlie Cuzzetto – Beaconsfield Park Community Legacy
The Board approved the motion, which formally acknowledges and honours the contributions of
Charlie Cuzzetto to Beaconsfield Park and the broader Vancouver parks system. Staff were
directed to report back with options to commemorate his legacy within the Beaconsfield Park
project, including consideration of naming the new turf field in his honour, or other appropriate
measures including plaques, dedications, or naming of park features.
NEXT MEETINGS
The next Committee and Board meetings are scheduled for May 25, 2026.
Page 2 of 2 5-May-26