Park Board General Manager’s Report
May 4, 2026
The following report is intended to provide an overview and update on recent and upcoming activities within
the Park Board.
New Stanley Park Transit Route – Engagement Launch
A new bus route on Stanley Park Drive was approved by the Park Board in September 2025 as
a priority initiative in the Stanley Park Mobility Study and identified as a key action in TransLink’s
Burrard Peninsula Area Transport Plan. City Engineering and Park Board staff are working closely
with TransLink to implement the new route, targeting service launch as early as 2027. The route
would connect Waterfront Station and Stanley Park and operate on Stanley Park Drive (see Map
on right). At the initial launch of service, TransLink plans to operate the seasonal service on
weekends only in spring and summer, with potential to expand service as funding is approved in
future TransLink Investment Plans. The new accessible bus stops and minor roadworks are
funded by TransLink and Park Board.
Project referrals have been sent by Park Board staff to the Local Nations in coordination with the
archaeological referral and the Stanley Park Intergovernmental Working Group. Public
engagement is planned to begin in May 2026, and feedback will inform the route design, bus stop
locations, and TransLink’s service plan. Outreach includes: An online survey open May 11 – 31
led by TransLink and a pop-up event in the park on May 23; and Meetings with park business
operators, City Advisory Committees and other interest holders led by Park Board. Feedback will
inform the new bus route design, bus stop locations, and TransLink’s service plan.
Park Trails Accessibility Pilot
The Park Board is advancing the Park Trails Accessibility Pilot to improve access and overall
visitor experience for people with disabilities. Through this pilot, visitors to Stanley Park, Queen
Elizabeth Park, John Hendry Park, and New Brighton Park will be able to access high-quality,
interactive accessibility maps to support trip planning and real-time navigation.
The Park Board has partnered with AccessNow to conduct specialized accessibility audits,
leveraging both advanced technology and auditors with lived disability experience. This approach
will generate reliable, detailed data on trail conditions, terrain, and amenities, which will be
integrated into a global digital mapping platform to enhance accessibility and usability ahead of
the peak summer season.
On-site audits will occur from May 4–8, providing critical insights into existing barriers and
informing both the pilot and future planning and operations. Following data collection, staff will
collaborate with Destination Vancouver on a coordinated public launch, with pilot completion
anticipated at the end of June.
Council Business (relating to or impacting parks & recreation):
Council to receive a referral report on May 5, 2026 titled “2026 Financing Growth Update : Bill 16
Compliance Update to Density Bonus Provisions and Inclusionary Zoning”, which would bring
forward the Downtown Official Development Plan and zoning by-law amendment to a public
hearing in compliant with new legislative rules.
Page 1 of 2 4-May-26Council to receive a report on May 5, 2026 titled “City of Vancouver Commemoration Framework”,
which outlines a standardized approach to receiving and approving commemoration applications
for City of Vancouver owned and operated spaces and assets.
Council to receive a report on May 5, 2026 titled “Quarterly Capital Budget Adjustments - May
2026”, which would approve an increase of $27M to the 2023-2026 Capital Plan, and $63M to the
Multi-Year Capital Project Budgets.
Council to consider a motion on May 6, 2026 titled “Supporting Community Stewardship for Eco-
Corridors and Neighbourhood Greenspaces”, which would approve a stewardship grant focused
on eco-corridors, waterways, shorelines, and neighbourhood greenspaces.
Council to consider a motion on May 6, 2026 titled “Keeping the Session Rolling”, which would
direct staff to include an allocation of $500,000 for the renewal of the Hastings Park skateboard
facility in the 2027-2030 Capital Plan.
Council to consider a motion on May 6, 2026 titled “Proactively Protecting Residents from
Dangerous Heat”, which would approve funding to ensure sufficient resources are available to
support vital cooling infrastructure throughout the summer months of 2026.
Council to receive a report on May 7, 2026 titled “Audit of Community Grants”, which would
receive for information the Auditor General performance audit of Community Grants.
Board Briefing Memos and Emails: April 27 to May 4
Date Topic
May 4 Spanish Banks Beach Paid Parking
Page 2 of 2 4-May-26