PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JUNE 2, 2026
A Public Hearing of the City of Vancouver was held on Tuesday, June 2, 2026, at 6:03 pm, in
the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This Public Hearing was convened in person and
via electronic means as authorized under Section 559.03 of the Vancouver Charter.
PRESENT: Deputy Mayor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Lisa Dominato* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
- 5 pm onwards)
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney*
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Mayor Ken Sim (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
Councillor Pete Fry (Leave of Absence – Civic Business)
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Andrew Aguilar, Deputy City Clerk
Kevin Burris, Manager, Civic Agencies
Alyse Stewart, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Deputy Mayor acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam,
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look
forward to working with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Deputy Mayor also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team
members who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and
play.
1. 2026 Financing Growth Update: Bill 16 Compliance Update to Density Bonus
Provisions & Inclusionary Zoning
An application by the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability was
considered as follows:
Summary: To amend the Zoning and Development By-law to comply with provincial
requirements to update the City’s bonus density provisions before June 30,Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 2
2026. Amendments include removing density bonus provisions,
removing heritage amenity share provisions, and adding inclusionary zoning
provisions to the following Districts: R1-1, R3, R4, R5, RT-3, RT-5, RT-7, RT-
9, RT-11, RM-1, RM-3A, RM-4, RM-5, RM-5A, RM-5B, RM-5C and RM-5D,
RM-7 and RM-7A, RM-8 and RM-8A, RM-9 and RM-9B, RM-10, RM-11, RM-
12, FSD, C-3A, C-5, C-5A and C-6, FC-2, I-1, I-1A, I-1B, I-2, I-3, IC-2, IC-3,
MC-1 and MC-2.
To amend the regulations for lands governed by the Downtown Official
Development Plan to comply with provincial requirements to update the City’s
bonus density provisions before June 30, 2026. Amendments
include removing density bonus provisions, removing heritage amenity share
provisions, and adding inclusionary zoning provisions. In addition,
amendments to density calculations are proposed to encourage new hotels to
include event and guest amenity spaces.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to the Public Hearing and before the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 35 pieces of correspondence in support of the application; and
 two pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
None.
Speakers
The Deputy Mayor called three times for speakers for and against the application.
The following spoke in support of the application:
 Gwendal Castellan
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
 Michelle Travis
 Stanley LeePublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 3
 Steve Cashmore
 Elfina Lambertus
 Carmelita Galapin
 Sumin Choi
 Hao Nguyen
 Kiera Harkins
 Ezri Boehm
 Rhys Delios
 Cristina Figueroa
 Caty Cerins
 Matthew Bradley
 Ronan Hannigan
 Haley Roy
 Jocelyn Stevens
 Gaby Macua
 Richard Reddy
 Robert L. Bader
 Alan Lin
 Daniel Verma
 Zaid Kiwan
 Pardeep Thandi
 Kiranjit Dhillon
 Kristen Lebrun
 Luis Antonio Cervera Bojorquez
 Naska Spasic
 Wilmarie Iyog
 Matthew De Marchi
 Angel Batan
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 8:40 pm.
Applicant Closing Comments
None.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided additional comments.
Council Questions Following Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to additional questions.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 4
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers on Item 1, Councillor Dominato joined the meeting.
Councillor Dominato advised having reviewed the proceedings related to Item 1 and, therefore,
would be participating in debate and voting.
* * * * *
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application to amend the Zoning and
Development By-law to remove density bonus provisions, remove heritage
amenity share provisions, add inclusionary zoning provisions, and consequential
amendments to various district schedules in accordance with Appendix A of the
Referral Report dated March 23, 2026, entitled, “2026 Financing Growth Update:
Bill 16 Compliance Update to Density Bonus Provisions & Inclusionary Zoning”,
to be effective as of June 30, 2026;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment, before June 30, 2026, amendments to the Zoning and Development
By-law generally in accordance with Appendix A of the above-noted report.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, the application to amend the Downtown
Official Development Plan in accordance with Appendix B of the Referral Report
dated March 23, 2026, entitled, “2026 Financing Growth Update: Bill 16
Compliance Update to Density Bonus Provisions & Inclusionary Zoning”, to be
effective as of June 30, 2026, including:
(i) removal of the density bonus provisions and replacing them with
inclusionary zoning requirements in sub-areas L1, L2, M, and C2;
(ii) removal of the heritage amenity share provision in Section 15;
(iii) amendment of the hotel amenity bonus and adding up to a 20% floor area
exclusion for specific amenity areas accessory to hotel use in sub-areas
‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C1’, ‘C3’, ‘F’, ‘O’ and sites fronting Georgia Street in sub-area ‘G’
as indicated in Map 1 of the DODP;
(iv) update to the relaxation and exclusion provisions; and
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment, before June 30, 2026, amendments to the Downtown Official
Development Plan generally in accordance with Appendix B of the above-noted
report.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 5
C. THAT, at the time of enactment of the amended Zoning and Development By-law
in Recommendation A of the Referral Report dated March 23, 2026, entitled,
“2026 Financing Growth Update: Bill 16 Compliance Update to Density Bonus
Provisions & Inclusionary Zoning”, the Council approve the consequential
amendments to various policies generally in accordance with Appendix C of the
above-noted report.
D. THAT Council approve the Scope of Work for a comprehensive review and
update of Vancouver’s inclusionary zoning approach, generally as set out in
Appendix E of the Referral Report dated March 23, 2026, entitled, “2026
Financing Growth Update: Bill 16 Compliance Update to Density Bonus
Provisions & Inclusionary Zoning”.
E. THAT, subject to approval of D of the Referral Report dated March 23, 2026,
entitled, “2026 Financing Growth Update: Bill 16 Compliance Update to Density
Bonus Provisions & Inclusionary Zoning”, and being aware of its obligation to
provide at least one opportunity for consultation with the persons, public
authorities, and organizations it considers affected, Council direct staff to consult
at least once on proposed inclusionary zoning amendments to the Zoning and
Development By-law with the stakeholders listed in the Stakeholder Engagement
table in Appendix E of the above-noted report.
F. THAT A to C above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for any
person, or obligation on the part of the City and any expenditure of funds
or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person making the expenditure or
incurring the cost;
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted following the public hearing shall
not obligate the City to enact any zoning by-laws; and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials shall not in any way be limited or
directed in the exercise of their authority or discretion, regardless of when
they are called upon to exercise such authority or discretion.
Prior to the vote, Council agreed to separate the components of the motion. B(iii) was put and
CARRIED with Councillor Orr opposed (Vote No. 11702). Subsequently, the remainder of the
motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11703).
2. Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue
An application by Amacon Construction Ltd. was considered as follows:
Summary: For the site at 1745 W 8th Avenue, to change the Generalized Land Use
(GLU) designation in the Vancouver Official Development Plan (ODP) from
Mixed-Use High-Rise 1 to Mixed-Use High-Rise 2 and to rezone from C-3A
(Commercial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District toPublic Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 6
permit a 31- and 29-storey mixed-used development containing 441 strata-
titled residential units, 98 in-kind social housing units, a 37-space in-kind
childcare facility, and commercial space on the ground floor. A floor space
ratio (FSR) of 8.56 and a height of 102 m (335 ft.) are proposed.
The General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability recommended approval
subject to conditions set out in the summary and recommendation.
Council also had before it a yellow memorandum from the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability dated May 29, 2026, entitled “Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1
Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue – Council Considerations when Amending an ODP.”
Summary of Correspondence
The following correspondence was received since referral to the Public Hearing and before the
close of the speakers list and receipt of public comments:
 44 pieces of correspondence in support of the application;
 36 pieces of correspondence in opposition to the application; and
 one piece of correspondence dealing with other aspects of the application.
Staff Opening Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided a presentation and responded to
questions.
Applicant Comments
The Applicant provided opening comments and responded to questions.
Speakers
The Deputy Mayor called three times for speakers for and against the application.
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT under Section 2.8(c) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
10 pm in order to complete hearing from speakers, and close the speakers list and
receipt of public comments on Item 2.Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 7
CARRIED BY
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11704)
(Councillors Maloney and Orr opposed)
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council refer closing comments from staff and the applicant, further questions to
staff, and debate and decision on Item 2 to the Council portion of the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities on Wednesday, June 3, 2026, as
Unfinished Business.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11705)
(Councillor Maloney opposed)
* * * * *
The following spoke in opposition to the application:
 Yumi Yamagami
 Ronan Hannigan
 Josephine Christie
 Steve Cashmore
 Michelle Travis
 Elfina Lambertus
 Sumin Choi
 Ezri Boehm
 Rhys Delios
 Cristina Figueroa
 Aidan Hannigan
 Kiera Harkins
 Kathy Hochachka
 Matthew De Marchi
 Gabriel Chen
 Gerard Tremblay
The speakers list and receipt of public comments closed at 10:40 pm.
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Maloney absent for the vote)Public Hearing
Minutes, Tuesday, June 2, 2026 8
The Public Hearing adjourned at 10:40 pm.
* * * * *