Sign By-law
BY-LAW NO. 11879
A By-law to repeal
Sign By-law No. 6510
and to enact a new Sign By-law
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
1. Council repeals Sign By-law No. 6510, except for Section 13 – Fees and Charges, and
enacts the by-law attached as Schedule A to this By-law.
2. A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable
severs that part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
3. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 25th day of July, 2017
Signed “Gregor Robertson”
Mayor
Signed “Janice MacKenzie”
City Clerk[Schedule A]
CITY OF VANCOUVER
BRITISH COLUMBIA
SIGN BY-LAW NO. ____SIGN BY-LAW
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART 1
INTERPRETATION
1.1 Name of By-law
1.2 Intent
1.3 Definitions
1.4 Table of Contents
1.5 Schedules
1.6 Severability
PART 2
APPLICATION OF BY-LAW
2.1 Scope of By-law
2.2 Compliance with By-law
2.3 Prohibited Signs
2.4 Permit Requirement
PART 3
AUTHORITIES AND PERMITS
3.1 Administration
3.2 Power of Entry
3.3 Permit Application Process
3.4 Permit Refusal
3.5 Limits on Appeals
3.6 Lapsed Application
3.7 Expiry of Application
3.8 Conditions on Permits
3.9 Lapsed Permit
3.10 Expiry of Permit
3.11 Permit Revocation
3.12 Notices and Orders
3.13 Scope of Orders
3.14 Service of Orders
3.15 Deemed Receipt of Order
3.16 Removal of Unsafe Sign
3.17 Corrective Measures
3.18 Immediate Measures
3.19 Reclaiming Sign
3.20 Recovery of City Costs
iPART 4
RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER
4.1 Requirement for Permit
4.2 Application for Permit
4.3 Compliance with Permit Conditions
4.4 Compliance with By-law and Other Enactments
4.5 Permitting Entry
4.6 Completion of Work
4.7 Call for Inspection
4.8 Covering Work Before Inspection
4.9 Uncovering Work
4.10 Prior Approval for Revisions
4.11 Re-inspection
4.12 Maintenance of Signs
4.13 Compliance with Orders
PART 5
GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS
5.1 General Prohibitions
5.2 Signs in Landscaped Setback
5.3 Sign Area Calculation
5.4 Signs Incorporating Multiple Sign Types
5.5 Structural Supports
5.6 Signs and Building Lines
5.7 Signs for Premises with No Frontage
5.8 Encroachment over a Street
5.9 Sign Clearances
5.10 Illuminated Signs
5.11 General Regulations for Illuminated Signs
5.12 Electronic Signs
5.13 General Regulations for Electronic Signs
5.14 Signs with Manual Changeable Copy
5.15 General Regulations for Manual Changeable Copy Signs
5.16 First Party Advertising
5.17 Third Party Advertising
Part 5 Schedules
5A Illuminated Sign Area Map
PART 6
EXEMPTIONS
6.1 Signs Exempt From Sign Permit
ii6.2 Signs on Protected Heritage Sites
6.3 Compliance with Other Requirements
6.4 Address, Commemorative and Public Information Signs
6.5 Change of Copy and Routine Maintenance
6.6 Banner Signs
6.7 Cultural, Institutional or Recreational Use Signs
6.8 Directional Signs
6.9 Election Signs
6.10 Floating Signs
6.11 Hoarding Signs
6.12 Identification Signs
6.13 Parking Signs
6.14 Projected Image Signs
6.15 Public Bike Share Signs
6.16 Real Estate Signs
6.17 Temporary Signs
6.18 Window Signs
PART 7
SIGN DISTRICTS
7.1 Sign Districts
PART 8
RESIDENTIAL SIGN DISTRICT
8.1 Intent
8.2 Permitted Signs
8.3 First Storey Fascia Signs
8.4 Fascia Signs Above the First Storey
8.5 Free-Standing Signs
8.4 Large Hoarding Signs
8.5 Signs for Neighbourhood Grocery Stores or Non-Conforming Commercial or Industrial
Uses
8.6 Site Specific Regulations
Part 8 Schedules
8A B.C. Place/Expo District (BCPED) Residential Sign District Map
8B Downtown Eastside Oppenheimer District (DEOD) Residential Sign District Map
8C False Creek Comprehensive Development District (FCCDD) Residential Sign District Map
PART 9
COMMERCIAL, MIXED USE AND
INDUSTRIAL SIGN DISTRICT
9.1 Intent
iii9.2 Permitted Signs
9.3 Awning Signs
9.4 Under-Awning Signs
9.5 Billboard Signs
9.6 Area Specific Billboard Signs in B.C. Place/Expo District
9.7 Area Specific Billboard Signs in Downtown Area
9.8 Area Specific Billboard Signs in Burrard and Granville Slopes
9.9 Canopy Signs
9.10 Under-Canopy Signs
9.11 First Storey Fascia Signs
9.12 Second Storey Fascia Signs
9.13 Upper Level Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
9.14 Painted Fascia Signs on Buildings Up to Three Storeys
9.15 Free Standing Signs
9.16 Free-Standing Wayfinding Signs
9.17 Large Hoarding Signs
9.18 Mansard Roof Signs
9.19 Moving Signs
9.20 Projecting Signs
9.21 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
9.22 Electronic Message Signs
9.23 Electronic Static Image Signs
9.24 Electronic Video Signs
9.25 Site Specific Regulations
Part 9 Schedules
9A B.C. Place/Expo District (BCPED) Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District
Map
9B Downtown/Eastside Oppenheimer District (DEOD) Commercial, Mixed Use and
Industrial Sign District Map
9C False Creek Comprehensive Development District (FCCDD) Commercial, Mixed Use and
Industrial Sign District Map
9D Downtown Billboard Area Map
9E Burrard and Granville Slopes Billboard Area Map
9F Electronic Static Image and Video Sign Area Map
PART 10
CHINATOWN AND GASTOWN
HISTORIC SIGN DISTRICT
10.1 Intent
10.2 Permitted Signs
10.3 Awning Signs
10.4 Under-Awning Signs
10.5 Canopy Signs
10.6 Under-Canopy Signs
10.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
10.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
iv10.9 Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
10.10 Fascia Signs on Uppermost Storey Above the Second Storey
10.11 Free-Standing Signs
10.12 Illuminated Signs
10.13 Large Hoarding Signs
10.14 Mansard Roof Signs
10.15 Projecting Signs
10.16 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
Part 10 Schedules
10A Chinatown and Gastown Historic Sign District Map
PART 11
WEST END SIGN DISTRICT
11.1 Intent
11.2 Permitted Signs
11.3 Awning Signs
11.4 Under-Awning Signs
11.5 Canopy Signs
11.6 Under-Canopy Signs
11.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
11.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
11.9 Free-Standing Signs
11.10 Large Hoarding Signs
11.11 Mansard Roof Signs
11.12 Projecting Signs
11.13 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
11.14 Electronic Message Signs
Part 11 Schedules
11A West End Sign District Map
PART 12
GRANVILLE STREET
SIGN DISTRICT
12.1 Intent
12.2 Permitted Signs
12.3 Awning Signs
12.4 Under-Awning Signs
12.5 Canopy Signs
12.6 Under-Canopy Signs
12.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
12.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
12.9 Upper Level Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
v12.10 Free Standing Signs
12.11 Large Hoarding Signs
12.12 Mansard Roof Signs
12.13 Moving Signs
12.14 Projecting Signs
12.15 Signs with Animated Copy
12.16 Electronic Message Signs
12.17 Electronic Static Image Signs
12.18 Electronic Video Signs
12.19 Signs with Manual Changeable Copy
12.20 Site Specific Regulations
Part 12 Schedules
12A Granville Street Sign District Map
PART 13
ROGERS ARENA
SIGN DISTRICT
13.1 Intent
13.2 Permitted Signs
13.3 Awning Signs
13.4 Under-Awning Signs
13.5 Billboard Signs
13.6 Canopy Signs
13.7 Under-Canopy Signs
13.8 First Storey Fascia Signs
13.9 Second Storey Fascia Signs
13.10 Arena Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey and Below 20 M
13.11 Arena Upper Level Fascia Signs Above 20 M
13.12 Office Tower Upper Level Fascia Signs Above Second Storey
13.13 Free-Standing Signs
13.14 Large Hoarding Signs
13.15 Projecting Signs
13.16 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
13.17 Electronic Message Signs
Part 13 Schedules
13A Rogers Arena Sign District Map
PART 14
INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE
SIGN DISTRICT
14.1 Intent
14.2 Permitted Signs
14.3 Awning Signs
vi14.4 Under-Awning Signs
14.5 Canopy Signs
14.6 Under-Canopy Signs
14.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
14.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
14.9 Upper Level Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
14.10 Free-Standing Signs
14.11 Large Hoarding Signs
14.12 Projecting Signs
14.13 Electronic Video Signs
Part 14 Schedules
14A International Village Sign District Map
PART 15
RELAXATIONS
15.1 Relaxation for Unnecessary Hardship
15.2 Considerations regarding Unnecessary Hardship
15.3 Relaxation for Heritage Property and Historic Areas
15.4 Considerations regarding Heritage Property and Historic Areas
15.5 Relaxation for Historic Signs
15.6 Considerations regarding Historic Signs
15.7 Relaxation for Special Event
15.8 Relaxation for New Technology
15.9 Conditions on Relaxation
15.10 Refusal of Relaxation
15.11 Reconsideration by Council
15.12 Timing of Reconsideration
PART 16
SIGN CONSTRUCTION
16.1 General Construction
16.2 Drawings and Specifications
16.3 Combustible Plastic Materials
16.4 Approved Pliable Combustible Plastic Materials
16.5 Other Combustible Materials
16.6 Supports and Anchorage
16.7 Corrosion Protection
16.8 Awning Sign Construction
16.9 Canopy Sign Construction
16.10 Under-Awning and Under-Canopy Sign Construction
16.11 Fascia Sign Construction
16.12 Free-Standing Sign Construction
16.13 Projecting Sign Construction
16.14 Signs with Electrical Components
viiPART 17
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
17.1 Offences
17.2 Fines and Penalties
17.3 Continuing Offence
17.4 Failure to Comply with an Order
17.5 Display of Sign without Permit
GENERAL SCHEDULES
A CD-1 Zoning Districts Regulated by Part 9
B CD-1 Zoning Districts Regulated by Part 10, 12, 13 or 14
viiiBY-LAW NO.______
A By-law regarding Signs on private property
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
PART 1
INTERPRETATION
1.1 Name of By-law
The name of this by-law, for citation, is the “Sign By-law”.
1.2 Intent
The intent of this by-law is to:
(a) support local commercial activity through appropriate identification of
businesses and wayfinding;
(b) ensure that the design, size and type of a sign respects the design of the
building and character of the neighbourhood where the sign is located;
(c) encourage preservation of signs with historic value;
(d) encourage signs that incorporate exceptional design, are innovative and
enhance the public realm;
(e) encourage signs that incorporate high quality materials and minimize light
pollution;
(f) regulate signs to ensure and maintain public safety; and
(g) prevent sign proliferation and visual clutter to ensure the effectiveness of signs
and maintain sight lines from the street into premises.
1.3 Definitions
In this by-law:
animated copy means copy that creates the impression of movement through lighting
effects.
approved combustible plastic means a polymer material which:
(a) complies with the applicable Building By-law requirements when installed in or
on a building; and
(b) when tested in accordance with UL 94 standard, achieves a minimum of V-1
classification or better for rigid plastics or VTM-1 classification or better for
non-rigid plastics.architectural feature means brackets, columns, pilasters, doors, window and door
surrounds or architraves, projections, cornices, pediments and balustrades and their
paints, finishes and colours, architectural hardware and similar exterior features of a
building.
arterial street means a street that is described as an arterial street in the City’s
1997 Transportation Plan.
awning means a light detachable structure that projects a minimum of 1.0 m from the
building for at least 80% of the length of the awning when extended, provides weather
protection, and consists of a covering of fabric, sheet metal or other flexible material
on a fixed or retractable frame that is attached to and entirely supported by a
building; except that if the awning projects from the building a distance that
measures at least twice the width of the awning, it may be partially supported by
posts.
awning sign means a sign that is painted on, attached to, or constructed on an awning
covering.
banner sign means a non-illuminated sign that is made of nylon, vinyl, canvas, or
similar lightweight flexible material and that is secured on no more than three sides
by a rigid frame, rods or high-tension cables.
billboard sign means a sign that is self-supporting and attached to the ground, or
attached to a building parallel to the building face, is more than 17 m2 and contains
third party advertising.
Building By-law means the City’s Building By-law.
canopy means a rigid, roofed structure that projects a minimum of 1.0 m from a
building for at least 80% of the length of the canopy, provides weather protection and
is attached to and entirely supported by a building.
canopy sign means a sign that is painted on, attached to, or constructed on a canopy.
Chief Licence Inspector means the person appointed as such by City Council pursuant
to the provisions of the Vancouver Charter and includes any person authorized to act
on behalf of the Chief Licence Inspector.
City means the City of Vancouver.
City Building Inspector means the person appointed as such by City Council pursuant
to the provisions of the Vancouver Charter and includes any person authorized to act
on behalf of the City Building Inspector.
City Electrician means the person appointed as such by City Council pursuant to the
provisions of the Vancouver Charter and includes any person authorized to act on
behalf of the City Electrician.
City Engineer means the person appointed as such by City Council pursuant to the
provisions of the Vancouver Charter and includes any person authorized to act on
behalf of the City Engineer.
2civic community facility means any property, complex, structure, building or portion
thereof that is owned or leased by the City.
clearance means the vertical distance between the bottom of a sign and grade.
copy means the logos, letters, characters, symbols, numbers or graphics that make up
the message on a sign, but does not include background colour or pattern.
copy area means the area, measured in square metres, that encompasses all of the
copy on a sign.
corner site means a site located at the intersection of two or more streets.
cultural, institutional or recreational use means archives, community centres,
driving ranges, fire halls, golf courses, hospitals, libraries, marinas, museums,
neighbourhood houses, places of worship, schools, theatres and the Vancouver Art
Gallery.
development permit means a permit issued pursuant to the Zoning and Development
By-law.
Director of Planning means the person appointed as such by City Council pursuant to
the provisions of the Vancouver Charter and includes any person authorized to act on
behalf of the Director of Planning.
directional sign means a free-standing sign on a site that indicates the location of
vehicular entrances and exits to the site.
election sign means a non-illuminated sign related to a municipal, provincial or
federal election, by-election, referendum or plebiscite, that addresses an issue in the
public interest, advertises a candidate seeking public office or advertises a political
party.
Electrical By-law means the City’s Electrical By-law.
electronic copy means copy that is generated, displayed or changed using electronic
screens, touch screens, computer video monitors, liquid crystal displays (LCD), light
emitting diode (LED) displays or any other electronic, computer generated or digital
technology.
electronic message sign means a sign that displays electronic copy consisting only of
text.
electronic sign means an electronic message, electronic static image or electronic
video sign, but does not include a projected image sign.
electronic static image sign means a sign that displays electronic copy that remains
static on the screen for a stipulated period of time.
electronic video sign means a sign that displays electronic copy consisting of video.
embellishments means decorative or ornamental elements on a sign that do not
contain identification, logos or advertising.
3fascia sign means a sign that is painted, inscribed, constructed on or attached to the
exterior, including transparent glass and glazing, of a building, that is on a plane
parallel to the building face, and projects no more than 0.40 m from the building face,
and does not include a billboard sign.
first party advertising means copy that advertises, promotes, or directs attention to
goods, services, or activities that are available on the premises where the sign is
located.
floating sign means a non-illuminated sign mounted on or affixed to a barge, vessel
or other structure that floats or is capable of floating on water.
free-standing sign means a sign that is self-supporting and attached to the ground,
and does not include a billboard sign.
free-standing wayfinding sign means a sign that is self-supporting and attached to
the ground, is located on a large campus or site, and displays site information or maps
for the purpose of wayfinding.
frontage means the length of a site, building or premises, that abuts or faces a
street, excluding a lane.
grade means:
(a) for any sign located more than 0.75 m from a street, measured horizontally,
the elevation of the finished ground surface directly below the sign, as
determined by the Director of Planning; or
(b) for any sign encroaching into a street or located within 0.75 m of a street,
measured horizontally, the elevation of the finished ground surface or street
directly below the sign, as determined by the City Engineer.
height means, in the context of a sign, the vertical distance from grade to the
uppermost point of a sign.
heritage property means a site, building or sign that is not a protected heritage site,
building or sign and that, in the opinion of the Director of Planning has sufficient
heritage value to justify its conservation.
heritage value means aesthetic, historic, scientific, cultural, social or spiritual
importance or significance for past, present and future generations.
historic sign means an existing sign or a replica of an original sign that, in the opinion
of the Director of Planning, has heritage value.
hoarding means a temporary fence, wall or covered walkway that encloses all or part
of a sign, building or street, for site protection during construction.
hoarding sign means a non-illuminated sign painted on or attached to a hoarding,
that:
(a) identifies consultants and contractors employed on the site, including but not
4limited to architects, engineers, landscape architects, developers, financiers or
builders;
(b) displays the name of the building under construction on the site; or
(c) displays public service messages regarding municipal programs, services or
initiatives that relate to the building under construction.
identification sign means a non-illuminated sign that displays only the name of a
building, a business or a licensed home occupation.
illuminated sign means a sign that is lighted by means of artificial lighting located
within, on or outside the sign.
indexing means rotating individual segments on a billboard sign that create two or
more sign surfaces displaying two or more separate and consecutive messages within
the same sign area.
lane means a street not more than 10.06 m in width that provides a secondary means
of access to a site.
larger residential sites means sites in any CD-1 zoning district assigned to the
Residential Sign District, and sites larger than 2000 m2 in the RM and RT zoning
districts.
logo means:
(a) a symbol or other graphic design not including words, letters, or numbers; or
(b) a registered trademark which may include words, letters, or numbers that
identify a product, business, service or activity.
mansard roof means a roof with four sloping sides, each with a roof pitch divided into
a shallow upper slope and a steeper lower slope.
mansard roof sign means a sign that is painted on, attached to, or constructed on a
mansard roof.
manual changeable copy means copy that can be changed manually, but does not
include copy on a billboard sign.
moving sign means a sign that includes visible moving parts or that rotates around an
axis, but does not include indexing.
mural means a work of art or graphic depiction of any kind which is painted,
inscribed, inlaid or otherwise placed on, affixed to, or is an element of the design of,
an exterior wall, roof, fence, or hoarding, but does not include a sign.
occupant means the owner or tenant who occupies a site or premises where a sign is
located.
owner includes the owner or tenant who occupies a site or premises where a sign is
located, the person named as the permit holder on a sign permit, and the owner,
manufacturer or installer of a sign.
5parks mean all areas under the exclusive possession, exclusive jurisdiction and control
or custody, care and management of the Vancouver Park Board as provided in section
488 of the Vancouver Charter.
premises means a site or building or a portion of thereof, that is occupied by a single
owner or tenant.
projected image sign means a static image that is projected onto a building or
surface for a specified period of time from a source external to the sign and is visible
from a street or from another site.
projecting sign means a sign that is attached to and entirely supported by a building
and projects more than 0.40 m from the building face.
protected heritage site means a site, building or sign that is:
(a) designated as protected pursuant to section 593 of the Vancouver Charter;
(b) listed in a schedule in an official development plan pursuant to section 596A
(3) (b) of the Vancouver Charter;
(c) located in a designated heritage conservation area; or
(d) protected by a Heritage Revitalization Agreement pursuant to section 592 of
the Vancouver Charter.
public bike share program means a program that provides the general public with an
opportunity to rent bicycles through an automated system on a short-term basis for
use within the city.
public bike share station means a bicycle sharing facility where bicycles are stored
and from which the general public may rent and return bicycles and other objects or
equipment as part of a public bike share program.
real estate sign means a sign that advertises the sale or lease of a property or an
open house.
Registered Professional Engineer means a professional engineer registered in the
Province of British Columbia with the Association of Professional Engineers and
Geoscientists of British Columbia.
retractable screen sign means a screen that has copy painted on, attached to or
projected onto it, and that can be retracted so it is not visible.
roadway means that portion of the street improved, designed or intended for
vehicular use.
roof means the primary top enclosure of a building, including any roof extension or
overhang beyond the building face, but excluding secondary roofs above the main roof
line, on structures such as elevator shafts or mechanical penthouses.
6roof line means the horizontal line where the building face meets the roof of the
building, or the top of a parapet wall, or the top of a mansard roof.
routine maintenance means ordinary maintenance or repair and does not include
removal or replacement of a sign or its structural supports, or a change in the design,
materials or appearance of a sign.
sandwich board sign means a portable non-illuminated sign consisting of two flat
panels attached or hinged at one end, which is self-supporting, and is not affixed to
the ground, a building, a structure, or a vehicle.
sign means any visual medium used to:
(a) attract attention or convey information of any kind by way of words, numbers,
pictures, graphics, logos or emblems;
(b) provide direction, information, identification or advertisement; or
(c) promote a product, business, activity, service or idea;
including the supporting structure, sign face, lighting fixtures and all other
components, but does not include light banding, a work of art or a mural approved by
the City.
sign area means the total surface area, measured in square metres, within the outer
edge of the frame or border of a sign and extending to any exposed supporting
structural components including any embellishment, except that where the sign has no
frame, border, or background, sign area means the total area within the shortest
perimeter surrounding the copy.
sign in conjunction with a mural means a sign that forms an integral part of the
design of a mural that has been approved through a development permit.
Sign Fee By-law means the City’s Sign Fee By-law.
site means an area of land consisting of one or more adjoining lots or parcels.
special event means an event designated as such by City Council by by-law or by
resolution.
storey means that portion of a building which is situated between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it and, if there is no floor above it, that
portion between the surface of such floor and the ceiling surface above it. A storey
shall not include a basement or cellar.
street means and includes public road, highway, bridge, viaduct, lane, and sidewalk,
and any other way normally open to the use of the public, but does not include a
private right-of-way on private property.
temporary sign means a non-illuminated sign that is not permanently attached to any
structure or building and is erected for a specified period of time.
7third party advertising means copy that advertises, promotes, or directs attention to
products or services that are not sold, produced or provided on the premises on which
the sign is located, but does not include any acknowledgement that identifies the
artist, owner or sponsor of a work of art or mural approved by the City, as a condition
of a development permit or pursuant to a public art program or similar program or
policy.
traffic control device includes any traffic signs, stop-signs, traffic lights or reflectors,
traffic disks, markers, blocks, standards, indicators, traffic-control signals, or other
devices or apparatus, whether automatic or manual, for the regulation, direction, and
control of traffic on any street.
traffic control signal means a traffic control device, whether manually, electrically
or mechanically operated, by which traffic is directed to stop and to proceed.
under-awning sign means a sign that is suspended from an awning and is located
entirely under the awning and perpendicular to the building to which the awning is
attached.
under-canopy sign means a sign that is suspended from a canopy and is located
entirely under the canopy and perpendicular to the building to which the canopy is
attached.
unnecessary hardship means hardship that results from unique physical
circumstances that are peculiar to the site and does not include mere inconvenience,
preference for a more lenient standard or a more profitable use, or self-induced
hardship resulting from the actions of the owner or applicant.
vertical dimension means the length of a sign measured vertically from the bottom to
the top or uppermost point of the sign.
window means an opening in the wall or roof of a building that is fitted with
transparent glass in a frame, that admits light or air and allows people to see in or
out, but does not include windows fitted with opaque, spandrel or translucent glass.
window sign means a sign that:
(a) is etched, painted, attached to or displayed in or on a window;
(b) is visible from outside the building;
(c) in the case of an exterior sign, is within 0.10 m of a window;
(d) in the case of an interior sign, is within 1.2 m of a window; and
(e) does not include a window display of products available on the premises.
Zoning and Development By-law means the City’s Zoning and Development By-law.
81.4 Table of Contents
The table of contents for this by-law is for convenient reference only, and is not for use in
interpreting or enforcing this by-law.
1.5 Schedules
Schedules attached to this by-law form part of this by-law.
1.6 Severability
A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs that
part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
PART 2
APPLICATION OF BY-LAW
2.1 Scope of By-law
This by-law applies to all signs on lands within the City, including lands covered by water,
except for signs:
(a) on streets;
(b) in parks;
(c) inside a building or on a site, and not visible from the exterior of the building
or from a street; or
(d) erected under the authority of a statute, by-law or regulation.
2.2 Compliance with By-law
A sign must not be erected, placed, displayed, altered or moved unless it complies with the
provisions of this by-law and all other applicable by-laws.
2.3 Prohibited Signs
Signs that are not specifically permitted by this by-law are prohibited.
2.4 Permit Requirement
A sign permit is required:
(a) to erect any sign except those signs listed in Part 6 of this by-law; and
(b) to replace or re-erect a sign that has been removed from its supports or a
building for maintenance purposes.
9PART 3
AUTHORITIES
AND PERMITS
3.1 Administration
The Director of Planning, the City Building Inspector, the Chief Licence Inspector and the
City Electrician are authorized to administer the applicable provisions of this by-law.
3.2 Power of Entry
The Director of Planning, the City Building Inspector, the Chief Licence Inspector or the City
Electrician may enter any building or premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of
administering or enforcing this by-law.
3.3 Permit Application Process
A person who wishes to obtain a permit to construct, erect, install or alter a sign must apply
to the Director of Planning for a permit to do so and must submit a complete application for
the proposed sign in the form prescribed by the Director of Planning, including, but not
limited to:
(a) proof that the owner or occupant of the premises identified in the application,
and any contractor identified in the application, holds a City business licence;
(b) drawings to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning and the City Building
Inspector that identify the site and the proposed sign and indicate:
(i) construction materials and methods,
(ii) sign dimensions,
(iii) the location of any existing and proposed signs, and
(iv) the location of any encumbrances that may impact or restrict the
placement of the sign on the site;
(c) any further technical information required by the Director of Planning or the
City Building Inspector pursuant to this by-law or any other applicable by-law;
and
(d) the requisite application fee for the proposed sign as set out in the Sign Fee By-
law.
3.4 Permit Refusal
The Director of Planning may refuse to process an application or issue a permit if:
(a) plans or supporting documents:
(i) are incomplete,
(ii) do not comply with the provisions of this by-law, or
10(iii) contain false or incorrect information;
(b) the proposed sign is not permitted by this by-law or by another enactment;
(c) the applicant does not hold a current City business licence;
(d) in the opinion of the City Building Inspector, the building on which the sign is
to be located is not structurally capable of supporting the proposed sign or the
information submitted regarding the building is not sufficient to enable the
City Building Inspector to determine the structural capacity of the building; or
(e) the proposed sign would, in the opinion of the City Engineer, obstruct or
interfere with the visibility of a traffic control device.
3.5 Limits on Appeals
No appeal lies from the refusal of the Director of Planning to process an application or issue a
permit under this by-law, except for an appeal pursuant to Part 15 of this by-law.
3.6 Lapsed Application
If an owner has failed to comply with the necessary requirements to complete an application
within six months after the date of receipt of the application by the Director of Planning, the
Director of Planning must:
(a) advise the owner that the permit application is lapsed; and
(b) refuse to process the application for the permit.
3.7 Expiry of Application
An application for a permit that has lapsed in accordance with section 3.6 of this by-law is
expired and the owner who wishes to obtain a permit must re-apply and pay the necessary
fees for a new application in accordance with the Sign Fee By-law.
3.8 Conditions on Permits
The Director of Planning may impose conditions on permits regarding:
(a) safety matters;
(b) hours and levels of illumination;
(c) construction requirements;
(d) timing of construction;
(e) timing of and requirements for reviews and inspections;
(f) limitations regarding the effective period of the permit;
(g) responsibilities of the owner; and
(h) compliance with this by-law or other enactments.
113.9 Lapsed Permit
If an owner has failed to complete the work authorized by a permit and to call for a final
inspection within twelve months after the date of issuance of the permit, the Director of
Planning must advise the owner that the permit is lapsed.
3.10 Expiry of Permit
A permit that has lapsed in accordance with section 3.9 of this by-law is expired and the
owner who wishes to obtain a new permit must re-apply and pay the necessary fees for a new
application in accordance with the Sign Fee By-law.
3.11 Permit Revocation
The Director of Planning may revoke a permit or order that a sign be removed if, in the
opinion of the Director of Planning:
(a) there is a contravention of a condition of the permit;
(b) the permit was issued in error;
(c) the permit was issued on the basis of false or incorrect information; or
(d) the sign does not comply with the provisions of this by-law.
3.12 Notices and Orders
The Director of Planning, the City Building Inspector, the Chief Licence Inspector or the City
Electrician, as the case may be, may issue in writing such notices or orders as may be
necessary to notify an owner of a contravention of this by-law, in the manner set out in this
by-law.
3.13 Scope of Orders
The Director of Planning the City Building Inspector, the Chief Licence inspector or the City
Electrician, as the case may be, may order a person who contravenes any provision of this
by-law:
(a) to comply with the by-law within a specified time;
(b) to discontinue or refrain from proceeding with any work in contravention of
this by-law;
(c) to allow the Director of Planning, the City Building Inspector, the Chief
Licence Inspector or the City Electrician, as the case may be, to enter any
building or premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of administering or
enforcing this by-law;
(d) to remove an unauthorized sign; or
(e) to paint, repair, alter or remove any sign or portion thereof which becomes
12dilapidated or is abandoned, or which constitutes a hazard.
3.14 Service of Orders
A notice or order issued under this by-law is sufficiently served if:
(a) the order or notice is delivered by hand, by ordinary prepaid mail or by
registered mail, to the owner's address as shown in the records of the
Assessment Authority of British Columbia; or
(b) in the case of an owner that is a corporation, the order or notice is delivered
by hand, by ordinary prepaid mail, or by registered mail, to the registered and
records office of the corporation; or
(c) in any case, the order or notice is delivered by electronic mail to the electronic
mail address of the owner as shown in the permit application.
3.15 Deemed Receipt of Order
Notices and orders issued in accordance with this by-law are deemed to have been received:
(a) seven days after mailing, if sent by ordinary prepaid mail, to the mailing
address of the owner;
(b) on the date of delivery as noted in the Canada Post tracking system, if sent by
registered mail;
(c) 24 hours after sending, if sent by electronic mail to the electronic mail address
of the owner as shown in the permit application; and
(d) immediately upon receipt, if handed to the owner or a representative of the
owner, or delivered to the registered and records office for the owner.
3.16 Removal of Unsafe Sign
When any sign or part thereof is, in the opinion of the City Building Inspector, structurally
unsafe, the City Building Inspector may issue a written order to the owner, certifying that the
sign is structurally unsafe and requiring its correction within a specified time.
3.17 Corrective Measures
If an owner fails to comply with a written order issued by the City Building Inspector, the City
Building Inspector may authorize demolition, removal or enclosure of the sign that is certified
to be structurally unsafe, at the expense of the owner and may take such other measures as
may be necessary to protect the public.
3.18 Immediate Measures
When immediate measures must be taken to avoid imminent danger or risk of accident as a
result of a sign being structurally unsafe, the City Building Inspector may take such action as
is appropriate, without prior notice and at the expense of the owner.
3.19 Reclaiming Sign
13Any owner who wishes to reclaim a sign that has been removed by the City Building Inspector
because it is structurally unsafe must:
(a) submit a request in writing, within 14 days of the date of removal of the sign;
and
(b) pay for the cost of removal, transportation and storage of the sign in
accordance with the Sign Fee By-law.
3.20 Recovery of City Costs
The cost of the removal, repair, transportation and storage of a sign that is structurally unsafe
is a debt due and recoverable by the City from the owner:
(a) in any Court of competent jurisdiction; or
(b) by entry of such cost in the real property tax roll with respect to the parcel on
which the sign is located and by collection in the same manner as taxes shown
on the real property roll.
PART 4
RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER
4.1 Requirement for Permit
An owner must not erect, display, modify or repair a sign for which a sign permit is required
by this by-law, without first obtaining the necessary permit, except for a change of copy or
routine maintenance as provided in section 6.5 of this by-law.
4.2 Application for Permit
An owner must comply with all the necessary requirements to complete an application for a
sign permit within six months of the date of receipt of the application by the Director of
Planning.
4.3 Compliance with Permit Conditions
An owner must comply with all conditions of a sign permit.
4.4 Compliance with By-law and Other Enactments
An owner must comply with this by-law and with all other applicable enactments.
4.5 Permitting Entry
An owner must allow the Director of Planning, the City Building Inspector, the Chief Licence
Inspector or the City Electrician, as the case may be, to enter any building or premises at any
reasonable time for the purpose of administering and enforcing this by-law.
4.6 Completion of Work
An owner must complete the work authorized by the sign permit and call for a final
inspection, within twelve months of the date of issuance of the permit.
144.7 Call for Inspection
Immediately upon completion of the installation of any sign for which a sign permit has been
issued, an owner must notify the City Building Inspector, and, if applicable, the City
Electrician, that the installation of the sign is complete, and must include the permit number
in the notification.
4.8 Covering Work Before Inspection
An owner must not cover work prior to inspection.
4.9 Uncovering Work
An owner must uncover any work that has been covered prior to inspection, at the expense of
the owner, if required to do so by the City Building Inspector or the Director of Planning.
4.10 Prior Approval for Revisions
An owner must not deviate from the approved plans and supporting documents forming part
of the sign permit without having first paid the necessary fees in accordance with the Sign
Fee By-law and obtained the necessary permit or permits.
4.11 Re-inspection
If the City Building Inspector discovers faulty or incomplete work or faulty materials during an
inspection, the owner must carry out the necessary repairs, apply for a re-inspection and pay
the necessary re-inspection fees in accordance with the Sign Fee By-law.
4.12 Maintenance of Signs
An owner must maintain all signs in good repair, in safe condition and free from defects.
4.13 Compliance with Orders
An owner must comply with an order or notice issued pursuant to this by-law.
PART 5
GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS
5.1 General Prohibitions
Except as otherwise provided in this by-law, a sign must not:
(a) obstruct or interfere with the visibility of a traffic control device;
(b) obstruct or interfere with the natural lighting, air intake or ventilation of a
building;
(c) cover or obstruct an architectural feature;
(d) be constructed or installed in a way that damages or may damage a tree;
(e) emit sound or noise;
15(f) obstruct or interfere with the flow of pedestrian traffic; or
(g) be in or project over a required landscaped setback area listed in Schedule C of
the Zoning and Development By-law.
5.2 Signs in Landscaped Setback
Despite the provisions of section 5.1 of this by-law, the following signs may be in or project
over a required landscaped setback area listed in Schedule C of the Zoning and Development
By-law:
(a) a fascia or directional sign; or
(b) a free-standing sign that identifies the principal use or occupancy of the site,
if:
(i) the sign area is no greater than 1.25 m²,
(ii) the sign is no more than 1.8 m in height,
(iii) the sign is within the rear two-thirds of the required landscaped
setback, and
(iv) the landscaping at the base of the sign is to the satisfaction of the
Director of Planning.
5.3 Sign Area Calculation
Sign area must be calculated as follows:
(a) for a double-faced or multi-faced sign, the sign area is one half of the total
surface area of all the sign faces combined;
(b) for a sign composed of individual letters or figures, sign area is measured by
applying the smallest square, rectangular or other simple geometric form to
enclose the surface area of the individual letters or figures that comprise the
sign face, and the sign area is the total surface area of all the geometric forms
combined; and
(c) for a three-dimensional sign with no easily measurable face, sign area is
measured by applying the smallest square, rectangular or other simple
geometric form possible, to enclose each of the parts of the sign face, and the
sign area is one half of the total surface area of all the geometric forms
combined.
5.4 Signs Incorporating Multiple Sign Types
In the case of a sign that incorporates more than one sign type, the regulations for each
particular sign type must be applied to the portion of the sign to which they pertain.
5.5 Structural Supports
A sign must be designed and placed on a building so that the structural supports, bracing and
ties of the sign are concealed, where possible, by the body of the sign.
165.6 Signs and Building Lines
Subject to the provisions of this by-law, a sign may be located in or project over a building
line prescribed by Schedule E of the Zoning and Development By-law.
5.7 Signs for Premises with No Frontage
In the case of a use that is located at the rear of a building or below grade and has no
calculable frontage, a sign pertaining to that use may be on the frontage of the premises of
another occupant in the same building or at a common entrance to the building.
5.8 Encroachment over a Street
A sign must:
(a) be at least 0.60 m from the edge of the curb that is immediately adjacent to
the roadway of a street; and
(b) not encroach over a lane, except that a fascia sign may encroach over a lane to
a maximum of 0.10 m.
5.9 Sign Clearances
A sign that:
(a) encroaches on a portion of a street used only by pedestrians, must have a
minimum clearance of 2.75 m, except that:
(i) if the grade below an awning sign slopes more than 0.10 m over the
length of the awning, the minimum clearance is 2.6 m,
(ii) if an awning sign is painted on a soft awning fringe or an under-awning
or under canopy sign is painted on soft material, the minimum
clearance is 2.3 m,
(iii) there is no minimum clearance for any fascia sign that encroaches less
than 0.10 m, and
(iv) the minimum clearance of a fascia sign in the Granville Street Sign
District that encroaches 0.10 m or more is 2.6 m; and
(b) is a projecting sign or free-standing sign encroaching on a street used by
vehicular traffic, must have a minimum clearance of 4.5 m; and
(c) is a projecting sign, must have a maximum clearance of 6.0 m.
5.10 Illuminated Signs
A sign may be illuminated, unless otherwise prohibited by this by-law.
175.11 General Regulations for Illuminated Signs
An illuminated sign must:
(a) not be illuminated from below;
(b) if externally illuminated, be equipped with a shield directing light downward;
(c) not increase the level of ambient light on an adjacent street or site by more
than 3.0 lux;
(d) if an awning sign, have any lighting source contained and concealed under the
awning;
(e) if within 30 m of a dwelling unit in the Residential Sign District facing the copy
area of the sign, be turned off between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., unless
the premises are open for business;
(f) if at the second storey of a building or facing a lane and within
30 m of a dwelling unit facing the copy area of the sign, be turned off between
11 p.m. and 7 a.m., unless the premises are open for business, except in the
shaded area shown on Schedule 5A; and
(g) for the purposes of this Section 5.11, dwelling unit includes a residential unit in
a community care facility, group residence or seniors supportive or assisted
housing.
5.12 Electronic Signs
A sign may not contain electronic copy unless specifically permitted by this by-law.
5.13 General Regulations for Electronic Signs
An electronic sign must:
(a) not increase the level of ambient light on an adjacent street or site by more
than 3.0 lux;
(b) be equipped with an ambient light sensor that automatically adjusts the
luminance of the sign;
(c) have a luminance no greater than 300 nits between sunset and sunrise and 5000
nits between sunrise and sunset;
(d) default to a black screen if the sign malfunctions;
(e) be at least 30 m from a dwelling unit facing the copy area of the sign;
(f) be at least 15 m from a traffic control signal;
(g) if within 60 m of a dwelling unit facing the copy area of the sign, be turned off
between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. and when the premises are not open
for business, except in the Granville Street Sign District;
18(h) if an electronic static image sign:
(i) display an electronic static image that does not change for a minimum
of 10 seconds, and
(ii) transition between images within 0.5 seconds; and
(i) for the purposes of this section 5.13, dwelling unit includes a residential unit
in a community care facility, group residence or seniors supportive or assisted
housing.
5.14 Signs with Manual Changeable Copy
Subject to the provisions of this by-law, a manual changeable copy sign is permitted in all
zoning districts except the HA-2(Gastown) and HA-3(Yaletown) zoning districts.
5.15 General Regulations for Manual Changeable Copy Signs
A manual changeable copy sign must:
(a) have a copy area no greater than 75% of the sign area, to a maximum of 2.3
m2, except that the copy area of signs for arenas, bingo halls, halls, places of
worship, pools, rinks, service stations or gas bars, and theatres may be greater
than 75% of the sign area, to a maximum of 2.3 m2; and
(b) in the HA-1 and HA-1A District (Chinatown):
(i) be located on a theatre, and
(ii) be a canopy or fascia sign.
5.16 First Party Advertising
Except as otherwise provided in this by-law, first party advertising is only permitted on:
(a) a fascia sign that does not include electronic copy, to a maximum of 30% of the
copy area; and
(b) a window sign that is exempt from permit under this by-law, to a maximum of
100% of the copy area.
5.17 Third Party Advertising
Except as otherwise provided in this by-law, third party advertising is only permitted on a
billboard sign, to a maximum of 100% of the copy area.
19SCHEDULE 5A
ILLUMINATED SIGN AREA MAP
20PART 6
EXEMPTIONS
6.1 Signs Exempt From Sign Permit
Signs listed in this Part 6 do not require a sign permit, except as provided in section 6.2 of
this by-law.
6.2 Signs on Protected Heritage Sites
A sign permit is required for any sign on a protected heritage site, other than an election,
hoarding, real estate or temporary sign.
6.3 Compliance with Other Requirements
Signs that do not require a sign permit:
(a) must comply with the general sign regulations in Part 5 of this by-law;
(b) must comply with the sign construction regulations in Part 16 of this by-law;
(c) must comply with all other applicable regulations under this or any other
by-law; and
(d) may require electrical, building or other permits.
6.4 Address, Commemorative and Public Information Signs
A sign permit is not required for:
(a) a sign listing only the building number and street name of premises;
(b) a non-illuminated commemorative plaque or cornerstone; or
(c) a non-illuminated sign providing information or a warning related to safety,
security, parking restrictions, or public access, and that does not exceed 0.20
m2 in sign area.
6.5 Change of Copy and Routine Maintenance
A sign permit is not required for:
(a) a change of copy on an existing sign that is under permit or lawfully non-
conforming, where the change of copy complies with this by-law, except that a
change of copy does not include changing an awning cover; or
(b) routine maintenance of an existing sign that is under permit or lawfully
non-conforming.
216.6 Banner Signs
A sign permit is not required for a banner sign that:
(a) has a vertical dimension at least twice the width of the banner;
(b) is perpendicular to a building face;
(c) has a sign area no greater than 4.0 m2, except in the Residential and West End
Sign Districts;
(d) in all sign districts other than the Rogers Arena and Residential and West End
Sign Districts, has:
(i) copy area consisting of letters, numbers, symbols or logos no greater
than 20% of the sign area,
(ii) a combined sign area no greater than 4.0 m2 for all banner signs on a
building face, and
(iii) first party advertising not exceeding 30% of the copy;
except as otherwise provided in subsection (e);
(e) if advertising public events presented by a non-profit society or public agency,
and located in the Granville Street or International Village Sign Districts, the
Downtown (DD) zoning district, or the area of the B.C. Place/Expo District
(BCPED) shown in Schedule 9A, may have:
(i) copy area consisting of letters, numbers, symbols or logos that is
greater than 20% of the sign area,
(ii) a combined sign area no greater than 8.0 m2 for all banner signs on a
building face, and
(iii) third party advertising not exceeding 30% of the copy;
(f) in the Residential and West End Sign Districts, has:
(i) a sign area no greater than 2.0 m2,
(ii) copy area consisting of letters, numbers, symbols or logos that may be
greater than 20% of the sign area, and
(iii) a combined sign area no greater than 4.0 m2 for all banner signs on a
building face; and
(g) on the arena in the Rogers Arena Sign District, may have:
(i) copy area consisting of letters, numbers, symbols or logos no greater
than 10% of the sign area, and
(ii) copy consisting of a logo, the name of the arena or an event scheduled
at the arena, which may include third party advertising.
226.7 Cultural, Institutional or Recreational Use Signs
A sign permit is not required for a free-standing sign that:
(a) is on the site of a building containing cultural, institutional or recreational
uses;
(b) identifies only the cultural, institutional or recreational uses on the site;
(c) is limited to one for each frontage of the site;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 0.60 m2;
(e) is no more than 1.2 m in height; and
(f) is not illuminated.
6.8 Directional Signs
A sign permit is not required for a directional sign that:
(a) is at a vehicular entrance or exit to a site;
(b) is at a vehicular entrance or exit at a lane;
(c) is limited to two on a site, except that for restaurant and retail uses, there
may be:
(i) one sign indicating the entry to a drive-through service window, and
(ii) one sign indicating each additional vehicular entrance or exit;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 0.60 m2, except that:
(i) in the Residential and Chinatown and Gastown Historic Sign Districts,
the sign area must be no greater than 0.40 m2, and
(ii) in the Rogers Arena Sign District, the sign area must be no greater than
1.0 m2; and
(e) is no more than 1.2 m in height.
6.9 Election Signs
A sign permit is not required for an election sign that:
(a) is a free-standing or window sign;
(b) if a free-standing sign, has a sign area no greater than 3.0 m2;
(c) if a window sign, is limited to one sign for each address or premises with a sign
area no greater than 30% of the glass surface of the window;
(d) in the case of a sign related to a federal or provincial election, by-election,
23referendum or plebiscite, is erected on or after the date when the writ for the
election is issued;
(e) in the case of a sign related to a general local election, by-election,
referendum or plebiscite, is erected no earlier than 45 days before general
voting day; and
(f) is removed within 48 hours after the close of voting.
6.10 Floating Signs
A sign permit is not required for a floating sign that:
(a) has a sign area no greater than 1.0 m2;
(b) may include third party advertising; and
(c) is limited to one per barge, vessel or other structure.
6.11 Hoarding Signs
A sign permit is not required for a hoarding sign that:
(a) has a combined copy area no greater than 9.3 m2 on each frontage;
(b) in the RA-1 or First Shaughnessy zoning districts or on a site less than 2000 m2
in an RS or RT zoning district, is limited to three signs on each frontage of the
site, each with a sign area no greater than 0.56 m2;
(c) is no more than 3.0 m in height; and
(d) is displayed only during construction.
6.12 Identification Signs
A sign permit is not required for an identification sign that:
(a) is a fascia sign;
(b) is limited to one sign for each premises; and
(c) has a sign area no greater than 0.20 m2.
6.13 Parking Signs
A sign permit is not required for:
(a) a sign in a parking lot identifying an individual parking space, that:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 2.0 m2 in all sign districts other than the
Residential Sign District,
(ii) in the Residential Sign District, has a sign area no greater than 0.10 m2,
24(iii) if a free-standing sign, is no more than 3.0 m in height,
(iv) is at least 7.5 m from a property line, and
(v) is not illuminated;
(b) a free-standing sign identifying a parking lot or garage, that:
(i) is limited to one sign at each vehicular entrance or corner of the site,
(ii) is at least 7.5 m from another free-standing sign identifying the same
parking lot or garage,
(iii) has a sign area no greater than 2.0 m2 for each sign, to a maximum
combined sign area of 5.0 m² for all free-standing signs on the site, and
(iv) is no more than 4.5 m in height; and
(c) a sandwich board sign identifying a parking lot or garage, that:
(i) is in any sign district other than the Residential Sign District,
(ii) is limited to one sign at each vehicular entrance, and
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.90 m and is no more than
0.60 m wide.
6.14 Projected Image Signs
A sign permit is not required for a projected image sign that:
(a) is in any sign district, except in the Residential and West End Sign Districts;
(b) advertises community events, campaigns held or sponsored by a charitable or
community organization, or events associated with a cultural, institutional or
recreational use;
(c) is limited to one sign on a site;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 12 m2;
(e) displays a static image that does not change for at least 10 seconds;
(f) transitions between images within 0.5 seconds;
(g) is projected for no more than 5 continuous days and no more than 10 days in a
calendar year; and
(h) is turned off between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.
6.15 Public Bike Share Signs
A sign permit is not required for a sign related to the operation of a public bike share station,
that:
25(a) has a sign area no greater than 3.0 m2;
(b) has a copy area no greater than 0.44 m2;
(c) is no more than 3.0 m in height, excluding any associated solar panel and
related components; and
(d) may include sponsorship acknowledgement.
6.16 Real Estate Signs
A sign permit is not required for a real estate sign that:
(a) is a free-standing sign or a fascia sign attached to a fence or a building at the
first storey;
(b) is limited to one sign at the address or entrance of the property listed for sale
or lease;
(c) in all sign districts and larger residential sites in the Residential Sign District:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 3.0 m2, and
(ii) if a free-standing sign, is no more than 2.4 m in height;
(d) in the Residential Sign District, except for larger residential sites:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.56 m2, and
(ii) if a free-standing sign, is no more than 1.8 m in height; and
(e) is removed no more than 14 days after the real estate sign indicates that the
property has been sold or leased.
6.17 Temporary Signs
A sign permit is not required for a temporary sign that:
(a) advertises community events, campaigns held or sponsored by a charitable or
community organization, or events associated with a cultural, institutional or
recreational use, and:
(i) is limited to one sign on a site,
(ii) is erected no more than 45 days in advance of an event or campaign,
and
(iii) is removed no more than 7 days after the conclusion of the event or
campaign;
(b) promotes the buying or selling of products and services or announces the
opening of a business and:
(i) is limited to one sign on premises,
26(ii) has a sign area no greater than 2.5 m2, and
(iii) may be displayed for no more than sixty days in a calendar year;
(c) provides information about a farmers’ market and:
(i) is erected on the day of the farmers’ market, except that one sign
advertising the farmers’ market may be displayed continuously on a site
from May 1st to October 31st, and
(ii) has a sign area no greater than 0.40 m2;
(d) displays public service messages about municipal programs, services or
initiatives and is limited to one sign on each frontage of a site; or
(e) addresses an issue in the public interest and:
(i) is limited to one sign for each street address,
(ii) has a sign area no greater than 0.56 m2, and
(iii) if a free-standing sign, is no more than 1.0 m in height.
6.18 Window Signs
A sign permit is not required for a window sign that:
(a) is in any sign district, except the Residential Sign District;
(b) is not illuminated, except for an electronic message sign;
(c) is an electronic message sign that:
(i) is limited to one sign on the premises,
(ii) has a copy area no greater than 0.34 m2, and
(iii) does not display flashing, scrolling or other visual effects;
(d) if located on the first storey of a building, has a combined sign area for all
signs no greater than 30% of the total area of contiguous glass, or glass panes
separated by mullions, contained within a window frame; and
(e) if located on the second storey of a building, has a combined sign area no
greater than 10% of the total area of contiguous glass, or glass panes separated
by mullions, contained within a window frame.
PART 7
SIGN DISTRICTS
7.1 Sign Districts
27For the purposes of this by-law, the city is divided into the sign districts listed in Column 1 of
Table 1. Each sign district includes those zoning districts and areas listed in the corresponding
row in Column 2 of Table 1.
Table 1
Sign Districts
Column 1 Column 2
Sign District Corresponding Zoning Districts and Areas
Residential Sign District The RA-1, RS-1, RS-1A, RS-1B, RS-2, RS-3, RS-3A, RS-4, RS-5,
(Part 8) RS-6, RS-7, RT-1, RT-2, RT-3, RT-4, RT-4A, RT-4N, RT-4AN,
RT-5, RT-5A, RT-5N, RT-5AN, RT-6, RT-7, RT-8, RT-9, RT-10,
RT-10N, RT-11, RT-11N, RM-1, RM-1N, RM-2, RM-3, RM-3A,
RM-4, RM-4N, RM-7, RM-7N, RM-7AN, RM-8, RM-8N, RM-9,
RM-9A, RM-9N, RM-9AN, and RM-9BN zoning districts;
The area of the FM-1 zoning district where residential uses
are permitted;
The First Shaughnessy zoning district;
The area of the B.C.Place/Expo District (BCPED) shown on
Schedule 8A;
The area of the Downtown/Eastside Oppenheimer District
(DEOD) shown on Schedule 8B;
The area of the False Creek Comprehensive Development
District (FCCDD) shown on Schedule 8C; and
All CD-1 zoning districts not listed in Schedule A or Schedule
B.
Commercial, Mixed Use The C-1, C-2, C-2B, C-2C, C-2C1, C-3A, C-5, C-5A, C-6, C-7,
and Industrial Sign C-8, Downtown (DD) and FC-1 zoning districts;
District (Part 9) The HA-3, I-1, I-1A, I-1B, I-2, I-3, I-4, IC-1, IC-2, IC-3, M-1,
M1-A, M-1B, M-2, MC-1, MC-2, and Central Waterfront (CWD)
zoning districts;
The area of the FM-1 zoning district where commercial uses
are permitted;
The area of the B.C.Place/Expo District (BCPED) shown on
Schedule 9A;
The area of the Downtown/Eastside Oppenheimer District
(DEOD) shown on Schedule 9B;
The area of the False Creek Comprehensive Development
District (FCCDD) shown on Schedule 9C; and
All CD-1 zoning districts listed in Schedule A.
Chinatown and Gastown The HA-1, HA-1A, and HA-2 zoning districts shown in
Historic Sign District Schedule 10A, which includes all CD-1 zoning districts
(Part 10) assigned to Part 10 and listed in Schedule B.
West End Sign District The RM-5, RM-5A, RM-5B, RM-5C, RM-5D, and RM-6 zoning
(Part 11) districts shown in Schedule 11A.
Granville Street Sign The area shown in Schedule 12A, which includes all CD-1
District (Part 12) zoning districts assigned to Part 12 and listed in Schedule B.
28Table 1
Sign Districts
Column 1 Column 2
Sign District Corresponding Zoning Districts and Areas
Rogers Arena Sign The area shown in Schedule 13A, which includes
District (Part 13) CD-1(311) listed in Schedule B.
International Village Sign The area shown in Schedule 14A, which includes
District (Part14) CD-1(265) listed in Schedule B.
PART 8
RESIDENTIAL SIGN DISTRICT
8.1 Intent
Part 8 contains regulations applicable to the Residential Sign District, which includes the
City’s residential zoning districts, those areas shown in Schedules 8A, 8B and 8C, and all other
areas listed under the Residential Sign District in Part 7 of this by-law. The intent of the
Residential Sign District is to respect the character of residential neighbourhoods by reducing
visual clutter and light pollution and to limit signs to cultural, institution or recreational
uses.
8.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 8 of this by-law and that comply with this by-law are
permitted in the Residential Sign District.
8.3 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) identifies a community centre, fire hall, library, museum or archives,
neighbourhood house, place of worship, purpose built child care facility, or
school;
(c) identifies the building name at the common entry to a multiple dwelling;
(d) is limited to one sign on the frontage or any recessed entrance area of
premises;
(e) does not extend above the roof line;
(f) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area, if the sign has a frame,
border or background; and
(g) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of premises, if the sign does not have a frame, border or background.
298.4 Fascia Signs Above the First Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on a building that does not have a fascia sign on the first storey;
(b) is between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(c) identifies a community centre, fire hall, library, museum or archives,
neighbourhood house, place of worship, purpose built child care facility, or
school;
(d) is limited to one sign on a building face to a maximum of two signs on a
building;
(e) is positioned so that two signs on adjoining building faces are not within 2.0 m
of a common corner;
(f) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols or logos only,
that identifies the principal occupant or building name only; and
(g) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the length of the distance measured
from grade to the bottom of the sign and multiplied by the width of the
building face at the bottom of the sign.
8.5 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) identifies a cultural, institutional or recreational use;
(b) is limited to one sign on a site with one or two frontages, except that one
additional sign is permitted if the site is a corner site with one frontage longer
than 60 m and one frontage longer than 30 m;
(c) may include one additional sign for each additional frontage on a site with
more than two frontages;
(d) has a height no greater than:
(i) 5.0 m on a site larger than 2000 m2, and
(ii) 2.0 m on a site that is 2000 m2 or smaller;
(e) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of frontage of
the site, to the maximum set out in subsection (f) below, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of the sign if the sign area is at least 2.75 m above
grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(f) has a sign area no greater than:
30(i) 5.0 m2 on a site larger than 2000 m2, or
(ii) 2.0 m2 on a site smaller than or equal to 2000 m2;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(h) may have a copy area that is greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign
contains a logo only;
(i) if an electronic message sign:
(i) is limited to one sign on a site,
(ii) identifies a community centre, neighbourhood house, place of worship
or school, and
(iii) no more than 60% of the sign area may be electronic copy to a
maximum of 2.3 m2;
(j) may be illuminated if:
(i) no more than 50% of the sign area is internally illuminated, and
(ii) it is not an electronic message sign;
(k) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building;
(l) is not within 45 m of another free-standing sign on the site, measured along
the frontages of the site;
(m) is not within 30 m of a dwelling unit facing the copy area of the sign;
(n) if encroaching over a street, is perpendicular to the property line abutting the
street; and
(o) does not encroach over a street more than 25% of the distance between the
sign and the nearest intersecting property lines, to a maximum encroachment
of 3.0 m.
8.6 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) if on an arterial street, has a copy area no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre
of length of the frontage of the premises;
(b) if not on an arterial street, has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each
metre of length of the frontage of the premises;
(c) has copy area with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m;
(d) has copy area no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(e) is displayed only during the construction period.
318.7 Signs for Neighbourhood Grocery Stores or Non-Conforming Commercial or
Industrial Uses
A sign for a neighbourhood grocery store or a non-conforming commercial or industrial use is
permitted that is:
(a) an awning sign;
(b) an under-awning sign;
(c) a canopy sign;
(d) an under-canopy sign;
(e) a fascia sign;
(f) a free-standing sign;
(g) a mansard roof sign; or
(h) a projecting sign;
and complies with the applicable regulations in Part 9 of this by-law.
8.8 Site Specific Regulations
The following site specific signs are permitted in the Residential Sign District:
(a) 1885-95 Venables Street (CD-1 (433))
One fascia sign on the site that:
(i) faces Victoria Drive at 1895 Venables Street,
(ii) has a sign area no greater than 2.7 m2, and
(iii) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area.
32SCHEDULE 8A
B.C. PLACE/EXPO DISTRICT (BCPED) RESIDENTIAL SIGN DISTRICT MAP
33SCHEDULE 8B
DOWNTOWN EASTSIDE OPPENHEIMER DISTRICT (DEOD) RESIDENTIAL SIGN DISTRICT MAP
34SCHEDULE 8C
FALSE CREEK COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (FCCDD) RESIDENTIAL SIGN
DISTRICT MAP
35PART 9
COMMERCIAL, MIXED USE
AND INDUSTRIAL SIGN DISTRICT
9.1 Intent
Part 9 contains regulations that apply to the Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign
District, which includes the City’s commercial, mixed use and light and heavy industrial
zoning districts, the areas shown on Schedules 9A, 9B and 9C, and all other areas listed under
the Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District in Part 7 of this by-law. The intent of
the Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District is to support and promote commercial
and industrial activity through the appropriate use of business identification and wayfinding
signs and to ensure that the location and operation of commercial signs respects residential
uses in mixed-use areas.
9.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 9 of this by-law and that comply with this by-law are
permitted in the Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District.
9.3 Awning Signs
An awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the exterior front or side face of an awning, and projects no more than
5.0 mm from the face of the awning;
(b) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(c) extends no more than 0.50 m above the roof line of a one-storey building;
(d) does not extend above the window or any opening directly above the awning on
a building with a second storey;
(e) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 40% of the area of the
front awning face;
(f) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 80% of the area of
the sides of the awning;
(g) if located on an awning that projects over a common entrance and is supported
by posts at the end farthest from the building:
(i) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 80% of the
area of the front awning face, and
(ii) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 40% of the
area of the sides of the awning; and
(h) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
9.4 Under-Awning Signs
An under-awning sign is permitted, that:
36(a) is on premises with an entrance under the awning;
(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(c) does not project beyond the front edge of the awning; and
(d) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.30 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
9.5 Billboard Signs
A billboard sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in a C-2, C-2B, C-3A, FC-1, DD, M-1, M-1A, M-1B, M-2, MC-1, MC-2, I-1, I-2, I-
3, IC-1, IC-2 or IC-3 zoning district;
(b) is not:
(i) within 50 m of the centre line of West Georgia Street from Beatty Street
to Cardero Street,
(ii) within 50 m of the centre line of Burrard Street from Pacific Street to
Burrard Inlet,
(iii) within 50 m of the centre line of Robson Street from Beatty Street to
Jervis Street,
(iv) above the surface of the rails of a rapid transit guideway,
(v) within 5.0 m of a street, if the sign face is parallel to the street or
forms an angle of less than 30 degrees with the street,
(vi) within 15 m of any sign containing third party advertising and located
at a bus shelter,
(vii) within 60 m of the Residential Sign District,
(viii) within 50 m of any other billboard sign, except a billboard sign
mounted parallel to it and on the opposite side of the same building,
(ix) within 60 m of the centre line of the rails of any rapid transit guideway
or passenger railway,
(x) above a bridge deck,
(xi) within 50 m of an elevated bridge entrance or exit ramp, if the height
of the billboard sign exceeds the height of the ramp,
(xii) within 50 m of the Trans-Canada Highway, or
(xiii) on the following CD-1 Sites:
• CD-1 (195) - 1000-1010 Beach Avenue
• CD-1 (251) - 888 Beach Avenue
37• CD-1 (252) - 901 Beach Avenue
• CD-1 (265) - International Village
• CD-1 (312) - 300 Cardero Street
• CD-1 (321) - 1601-1799 West Georgia and 549 Cardero Streets
• CD-1 (324) - 800-1100 Pacific Boulevard
• CD-1 (363) - 201 Burrard Street
• CD-1 (364) - 501 Bute Street
• CD-1 (365) - 301 Jervis Street
• CD-1 (366) - 500 Pacific Street
• CD-1 (414) - 600 Granville Street/602 Dunsmuir Street (Sub-area B)
• CD-1 (504) - 1618 Quebec Street
• CD-1 (516) - 1650 Quebec Street
• CD-1 (522) - 108 East 1st Avenue;
(c) Is limited to four signs on a site, not including the multiple faces on a single
billboard sign resulting from indexing, except that two parallel copy areas
mounted back to back on the same structural support are considered to be one
billboard sign;
(d) is enclosed to conceal all components of the back of the copy area, if
consisting of a single face;
(e) if mounted on a building, projects no more than 0.60 m, excluding externally
mounted lighting;
(f) is no more than:
(i) 6.25 m in height, if more than 3.7 m in width, and
(ii) 7.0 m in height, if 3.7 m or less in width;
(g) has a sign area no greater than 21.5 m2;
(h) does not encroach over a street;
(i) if located within 20 m of the frontage of a building that contains a public
entrance, is no closer to the street than:
(i) the building face, or
(ii) if there are two building faces fronting the street, any point along a
straight line connecting the nearest points of the two building faces;
and
(j) must comply with all applicable provisions of sections 9.6, 9.7 and 9.8.
9.6 Area Specific Billboard Signs in B.C. Place/Expo District
A billboard sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the shaded areas shown on Schedule 9A;
(b) complies with section 9.5 of this by-law;
38(c) has a sign permit limited in time and subject to the conditions set out in
subsection (d); and
(d) must be removed immediately on the earlier of 5 years from the date of permit
issuance, or the commencement of redevelopment of any site within 30 m of
the sign.
9.7 Area Specific Billboard Signs in Downtown Area
A billboard sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the shaded areas shown in Schedule 9D;
(b) complies with section 9.5 of this by-law;
(c) has a sign permit limited in time and subject to the conditions set out in
subsections (d) and(e);
(d) must not be located within 30 m of a site containing a building which has an
occupancy permit authorizing occupancy of dwelling units; and
(e) must be removed within one month of the issuance of an occupancy permit
authorizing occupancy of a building containing dwelling units on a site within
30 m of the sign.
9.8 Area Specific Billboard Signs in Burrard and Granville Slopes
A billboard sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the shaded area shown in Schedule 9E;
(b) complies with section 9.5 of this by-law;
(c) has a sign permit limited in time and subject to the conditions set out in
subsections (d) and(e);
(d) must not be located within 30 m of a site containing a building which has an
occupancy permit authorizing occupancy of dwelling units; and
(e) must be removed within one month of the issuance of an occupancy permit
authorizing occupancy of a building containing dwelling units on a site within
30 m of the sign.
9.9 Canopy Signs
A canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the front or side of the canopy;
(b) projects no more than 0.60 m horizontally beyond the front or side of the
canopy;
(c) if located on the roof of the canopy, is within 0.45 m of the front or side edge
of the canopy;
39(d) is limited to one sign on the frontage of premises with a separate entrance;
(e) may be at the common entrance of a building and identifies the principal
occupant or building name only;
(f) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(h) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m, except that the vertical
dimension may be increased to 2.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.0 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 1.2 m above the canopy face;
(i) in the case of a theatre or premises with a frontage longer than 30 m, has a
vertical dimension no greater than 1.5 m, except that the vertical dimension
may be increased to 3.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.5 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 2.0 m above the canopy face; and
(j) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
9.10 Under-Canopy Signs
An under-canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to one sign for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage less
than 15 m long;
(b) is limited to two signs for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage 15
m or longer;
(c) in a building that only has a common entrance, is limited to one sign for each
ground floor premises adjacent to and visible from the street, to a maximum of
one sign for every 15 m of length of frontage of the building;
(d) does not project beyond the front edge of the canopy; and
(e) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.45 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
9.11 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
40(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage or any recessed entrance area of premises;
(d) is on a wall facing a vacant area or a parking area on the premises or on the
site, if the sign is at least 7.5 m from the nearest property line;
(e) if above a common entrance, identifies the principal occupant or building name
only;
(f) in the case of premises occupying a second storey with a separate entrance at
the first storey, may be above the separate entrance;
(g) is above the lintel or window head of the first storey and below the window sill
of the second storey, or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the second storey, except that the sign
must not cover a second storey window;
(h) on a live-work unit, has a sign area no greater than 0.20 m2 and is not
externally illuminated;
(i) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a border,
frame or background, except that:
(i) a sign containing a logo only may have a copy area that is greater than
40% of the sign area, and
(ii) if the sign has a border, frame or background with a horizontal
dimension no greater than 40% of the length of the frontage of the
premises, it may have a copy area no greater than 60% of the sign area;
(j) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of premises if the sign does not have a frame, border or background;
(k) has a combined copy area for all fascia signs that does not exceed 0.60 m2 for
each metre of length of the frontage of premises, regardless of whether the
signs have a frame, border or background;
(l) in an FM-1 zoning district, has a copy area no greater than 1.0 m2 and is not
externally illuminated;
(m) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 9.22 of this by-law;
(n) despite the provisions of this by-law, may be below the window head or lintel
of the first storey, if it:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face with no door or window opening, to a
maximum of 3.0 m2, except that, if painted on a wall, it may have a
sign area no greater than 4.0 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street more than 0.10 m; and
41(o) may face a lane if it:
(i) is above a public entrance to premises,
(ii) contains copy that identifies the principal occupant or building name
only, and
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m and is no more than 2.5
m wide.
9.12 Second Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the second storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of the premises;
(d) is above the lintel or window head of the second storey and below the window
sill of the third storey, or in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the third storey, except that a sign must
not cover a third storey window;
(e) on a live-work unit, has a sign area no greater than 0.20 m2 and is not
externally illuminated;
(f) includes copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 0.40 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(h) in an FM-1 zoning district, has a copy area no greater than 1.0 m2 and is
not externally illuminated;
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m;
(j) in the case of premises occupying both the first and second storey, is limited to
one sign on either the first or second storey.
9.13 Upper Level Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is not in a C-5, C-6 or C-7 zoning district;
(b) is between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(c) is limited to one sign on a building face to a maximum of two signs on a
building;
(d) is positioned so that two signs on adjoining building faces are not within 2.0 m
42of a common corner;
(e) identifies the principal occupant or building name only;
(f) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols or logos only,
except that a sign more than 55 m in height must contain copy consisting of a
logo only; and
(g) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the length of the distance measured
from grade to the bottom of the sign and multiplied by the width of the
building face at the bottom of the sign, to a maximum of 47 m2.
9.14 Painted Fascia Signs on Buildings Up to Three Storeys
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is painted on the wall of a building;
(b) is no higher than the third storey of the building;
(c) is limited to one sign on a building;
(d) identifies the principal occupant or building name only;
(e) is in an I-1, I-2, I-3, I-4, M-1 or M-2 zoning district; and
(f) may have a copy area no greater than 20% of the building face, except that if
the building is more than three storeys, the building face must be measured to
the top of the third storey only.
9.15 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to two signs on each frontage of a site, to a maximum of six signs on
a site;
(b) is no more than 8.0 m in height;
(c) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of frontage of
the site, to the maximum set out in Table 9.1 below, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of the sign if the sign area is at least 2.75 m above
grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(d) has a maximum sign area for the applicable zoning district as set out in Table
9.1:
43Table 9.1
Free-Standing Sign - Maximum Sign Area
Zoning district Maximum Permitted Sign Area
C-1, C-5, C-5A, C-6, C-7 or FM-1 zoning 3.0 m2
district and FCCDD
C-2, C-2B, C-2C, C-2C1, C-3A, C-8, CWD, 9.0 m2
DD, FC-1, HA-3, I1-A, I1-B, IC-1, IC-2,
IC-3, MC-1 or MC-2 zoning district,
BCPED and DEOD
I-1, I-2, I-3, I-4, M-1, M1-A, M1-B or M-2 14 m2
zoning district
(e) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(f) may have a copy area that is greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign
contains a logo only;
(g) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 9.22;
(h) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building;
(i) is not within 45 m of another free-standing sign on the site, measured along
the frontages of the site;
(j) is not on the same frontage of a site as a projecting sign that identifies the
same occupant;
(k) if illuminated or containing electronic copy and within 30 m of a dwelling unit
in the Residential Sign District, the copy area must not face the dwelling unit;
(l) if encroaching over a street:
(i) is not in the FM-1 zoning district,
(ii) has a sign area no greater than the maximum sign area permitted in the
applicable zoning district, as set out in Table 9.2 below,
(iii) is perpendicular to the property line abutting the street, and
(iv) encroaches no more than 25% of the distance between the sign and the
nearest intersecting property line, to a maximum encroachment of 3.0
m.
Table 9.2
Encroaching Free-Standing Sign - Maximum Sign Area
Zoning district Maximum Permitted Sign Area
C-1, C-5, C-5A, C-6 or C-7 zoning the lesser of 2.25 m2, or 0.075 m2
44district and FCCDD for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises
C-2, C-2B, C-2C, C-2C1, C-3A, C-8, the lesser of 7.0 m2, or 0.23 m2
CWD, FC-1, I-1, I-1A, I-1B, I-2, I-3, for each metre of length of the
IC-1, IC-2, IC-3 or M-1, M-1A, frontage of the premises
M-1B, M-2, MC-1 or MC-2 zoning
district, BCPED and DEOD
DD or HA-3 zoning district the lesser of 9.0 m2, or 0.30 m2
for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises
9.16 Free-Standing Wayfinding Signs
A free-standing wayfinding sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to one sign for each frontage of a site to a maximum of four signs on
a site;
(b) is on a site 25,000 m2 or larger;
(c) is no more than 4.0 m in height;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 3.0 m2;
(e) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(f) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building; and
(g) is not within 45 m of another free-standing wayfinding sign on the site,
measured along the frontages of the site.
9.17 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) has a copy area:
(i) no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of the
premises,
(ii) with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m, and
(iii) no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(b) is displayed only during construction.
9.18 Mansard Roof Signs
A mansard roof sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the frontage of premises;
45(b) is on a building facing a vacant area or a parking area on the premises or on
the site, if the sign is at least 7.5 m from the nearest property line;
(c) is limited to one sign on premises;
(d) is no less than 0.30 m below the roof line;
(e) is no more than 8.0 m in height;
(f) projects no more than 0.25 m from the roof at the base of the sign;
(g) has a sign area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
applicable building face;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area; and
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m.
9.19 Moving Signs
A moving sign is permitted, that:
(a) is a free-standing sign; and
(b) is in the C-2 District on Kingsway between Victoria Drive and East 12th Avenue.
9.20 Projecting Signs
A projecting sign is permitted, that:
(a) is perpendicular to the building face, except that on a corner site it may be on
an angle at the corner of the building;
(b) is at least 1.0 m from an adjacent property line or premises, measured
horizontally;
(c) has a space no greater than 0.30 m between the sign and the building face,
excluding architectural features;
(d) is not in a FM-1 zoning district;
(e) is limited to:
(i) one sign for each premises at the first storey, and
(ii) for each building frontage less than 100 m long, one additional sign,
which may include the names of occupants and the building name, or
(iii) for each building frontage 100 m or longer, two additional signs, which
may include the names of occupants and the building name;
(f) on a one-storey building, is the lower of 6.0 m in height or 1.8 m above the
roof line;
46(g) on a multi-storey building, is the lower of 21 m in height or the roof line,
except that:
(i) if the second storey is set back 4.5 m or less from the front face of the
first storey at the sign location, the sign must not extend above the
roof line of the first storey, and
(ii) if the second storey is set back more than 4.5 m from the front face of
the first storey at the sign location, the sign is the lower of 6.0 m in
height or 1.8 m above the roof line of the first storey;
(h) has a support structure extending no more than 0.30 m above the roof line;
(i) projects no more than 4.5 m from the building face;
(j) has a sign area which may be at least 0.75 m2 and must be no greater than the
maximum set out in Table 9.3 below, excluding any sign area comprised of
embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the sign area excluding that area
comprised of embellishments only;
(k) has a maximum sign area for the applicable zoning district as set out in Table
9.3:
Table 9.3
Projecting Sign – Maximum Sign Area
Zoning district Maximum Permitted Sign Area
C-1, C-5, C-5A, C-6 or C-7 zoning the lesser of 2.25 m2, or 0.075 m2 for
district and FCCDD each metre of length of the frontage of
the premises
C-2, C-2B, C-2C, C-2C1, C-3A, the lesser of 7.0 m2, or 0.23 m2 for each
C-8, CWD, FC-1, I-1, I-1A, I-1B, metre of length of the frontage of the
I-2, I-3, I-4, IC-1, IC-2, IC-3, M-1, premises
M-1A, M-1B, M-2, MC-1 or MC-2
zoning district and BCPED and
DEOD
DD or HA-3 zoning district the lesser of 9.0 m2, or 0.30 m2 for each
metre of length of the frontage of the
premises
(l) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(m) may have a copy area that is greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign
contains a logo only;
(n) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 9.22 of this by-law;
(o) is not on the same frontage of a site as a free-standing sign that identifies the
same occupant; and
(p) may encroach over a street at least 0.60 m, except that:
47(i) it must not encroach more than 25% of the distance between the sign
and the nearest property line of an adjacent site or the point where the
frontages of adjacent premises meet, to a maximum of 3.0 m, and
(ii) if serving two or more adjacent or shared premises, the calculation of
the permitted encroachment must be based on the combined frontages
of those premises; and
(q) for the purpose of calculating the frontage of premises located at a corner,
frontage means the average length of the two frontages of the premises.
9.21 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
A sign in conjunction with a mural is permitted, that:
(a) is in the C-2, C-3A, C-5, C-6, DD or HA-3 zoning district;
(b) may include the date of installation of the mural and:
(i) the name of the building, or
(ii) the name of the principal occupant, or
(iii) the corporate logo of the principal occupant;
(c) is installed at the same time, using the same method of installation and type
and quality of materials as the mural;
(d) has a copy area no greater than 10% of the mural area;
(e) has a copy area no higher than 20 m above grade; and
(f) is removed when the mural is removed.
9.22 Electronic Message Signs
An electronic message sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the C-2, C2-B, C-2C, C-3A, IC-2, MC-2 or DD zoning district;
(b) is a fascia sign, free-standing sign or projecting sign;
(c) is limited to one fascia sign, free-standing sign or projecting sign on each
frontage of premises;
(d) if a fascia or projecting sign, is located at the first storey;
(e) if a free-standing sign with a copy area greater than 5.0 m2, is at least 20 m
from a street; and
(f) has a copy area no greater than 80% of the sign area to a maximum of:
(i) 4.0 m2 on a site smaller than 0.40 ha, or
48(ii) 8.0 m2 on a site 0.40 ha or larger.
9.23 Electronic Static Image Signs
An electronic static image sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the shaded areas shown on Schedule 9F to this by-law;
(b) is in a window on the first storey of a building;
(c) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(d) is not on the same premises as an electronic video sign;
(e) has a sign area no greater than 30% of the total area of contiguous glass or
glass panes separated by mullions contained within a window frame, to a
maximum of 2.5 m2;
(f) if on the same frontage of the premises as a window sign, the combined sign
area of all window signs and an electronic static image sign, is no greater than
30% of the total area of contiguous glass or glass panes separated by mullions
contained within a window frame; and
(g) may include first party advertising up to a maximum of 100% of the copy area.
9.24 Electronic Video Signs
An electronic video sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the shaded areas shown on Schedule 9F to this by-law;
(b) is in a window on the first storey of a building;
(c) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(d) is not on the same premises as an electronic static image sign;
(e) has a sign area no greater than 30% of the total area of contiguous glass or
glass panes separated by mullions contained within a window frame, to a
maximum of 2.5 m2;
(f) if on the same frontage of the premises as a window sign, the combined sign
area of all window signs and an electronic video sign, is no greater than 30% of
the total area of contiguous glass or glass panes separated by mullions
contained within a window frame; and
(g) may include first party advertising to a maximum of 100% of the copy area.
9.25 Site Specific Regulations
Despite anything to the contrary in this by-law, the following site specific signs are permitted
in the Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District:
(a) 1001 Hornby Street (CD-1 (386)) (Sheraton Vancouver Wall Centre)
49A fascia sign on the site zoned CD-1 (386) that is no more than 107 m in height;
(b) 1128 West Hastings Street (CD-1 (409)) (Marriott Pinnacle Hotel)
A fascia sign on the site zoned CD-1 (409) that is no more than 107 m in height;
(c) 801 West Georgia Street (CD-1 (413)) (Rosewood Hotel Georgia)
A fascia sign on the site zone CD-1 (413) that is no more than 137 m in height;
(d) 1120 West Georgia Street (CD-1 (426)) (Shangri-la Hotel)
A fascia sign on the site zoned CD-1 (426) that is no more than 137 m in height;
(e) 1133 West Georgia Street (CD-1 (446)) (Trump Tower)
A fascia sign on the site zoned CD-1 (446) that is no more than 137 m in height;
(f) 1181 Seymour Street (Orpheum Theatre)
A projecting sign that may include third party advertising;
(g) 700 Hamilton Street (CBC Building)
In the block bounded by Cambie, Georgia, Hamilton and Robson Streets:
(i) one free-standing sign adjacent to the corner of Robson Street and
Hamilton Street that:
A. has a copy area with a vertical dimension no greater than
0.31 m,
B. is no more than 3.7 m in height,
C. has a logo no more than 0.135 m2 in sign area,
D. may be within 25 m of a residential use, and
E. may be on the same frontage of the site as a projecting sign that
identifies the same occupant;
(ii) one electronic message sign that is a fascia sign, at the level of the first
storey and facing Cambie Street, that:
A. may have a copy area that is 100% of the sign area, and
B. may operate 24 hours a day;
(iii) one electronic message sign that is a fascia sign facing Georgia Street
that may have a copy area that is 100% of the sign area;
(iv) one double sided electronic message sign that:
50A. is a free-standing sign,
B. is on the Hamilton Street frontage,
C. has a copy area no greater than 2.9 m² on each side of the sign,
D. may be within 45 m of another free-standing sign, measured
along the frontage of the site,
E. may operate 24 hours a day, and
F. may be on the same frontage of the site as a projecting sign that
identifies the same occupant; and
(v) one electronic video sign, that:
A. is a projecting sign,
B. is on the second storey,
C. has a sign area no greater than 15 m²,
D. may include third party advertising,
E. may be perpendicular to the building face,
F. may project more than 3.0 m from the building face,
G. may have a copy area that is 100% of the sign area,
H. may be on the same frontage of the site as a free-standing sign
that identifies the same occupant, and
I. may operate 24 hours a day;
(h) 639 Commercial Drive (CD-1(514)) (York Theatre)
On the site zoned (CD-1 (514)):
(i) two electronic message signs, that:
A. are canopy signs,
B. are above the main entrance on Commercial Drive,
C. are within 30 m of a dwelling unit,
D. have a copy area with a vertical dimension no greater than
0.686 m,
E. have a copy area no greater than 2.4 m2,
F. are no more than 3.81 m in height,
51G. may include the name of a corporate sponsor if the name does
not exceed 50% of the copy area,
H. must have the illumination of the electronic copy reduced by
25% at dusk, and
I. must be turned off between 11 p.m. and 8 a.m.;
(ii) one fascia sign, that:
A. is at the level of the parapet facing Commercial Drive,
B. has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.4 m,
C. has a sign area no greater than 7.8 m2,
D. does not extend beyond the top of the parapet,
E. may include the name of a corporate sponsor if the name does
not exceed 20% of the copy area,
F. is illuminated only between dusk and 11 p.m., and
G. is not backlit;
(i) 162 West 1 Avenue (CD-1 (462)) (BMO Theatre Centre)
On the site zoned (CD-1 (462)) one canopy sign, that:
(i) is within 30 m of a dwelling unit,
(ii) projects less than 1.0 m from the building face, and
(iii) may be illuminated, except between 11 p.m. and 8 a.m.;
(j) 520 West Georgia Street (CD-1 (525)) (Telus Garden)
On the site zoned (CD-1 (525)) one electronic video sign that:
(i) is a retractable screen sign,
(ii) is on the west face of the building,
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 7.5 m,
(iv) is no more than 11 m wide,
(v) is no more than 67.7 m in height,
(vi) may include a logo or slogan containing first party advertising with a
copy area no greater than 8.25 m2,
(vii) has a luminance no greater than 330 nits,
52(viii) is not in use between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.,
(ix) is retracted when not in use, and
(x) may contain sign copy that advertises, promotes or directs attention to
businesses, goods or services, matters or activities pertaining to a civic,
artistic or cultural institution, society, event or purpose not located on
the site.
53SCHEDULE 9A
B.C. Place/Expo District (BCPED) Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign District Map
54SCHEDULE 9B
Downtown Eastside Oppenheimer District (DEOD) Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial
Sign District Map
55SCHEDULE 9C
False Creek Comprehensive Development District (FCCDD) Commercial, Mixed Use and
Industrial Sign District Map
56SCHEDULE 9D
Downtown Billboard Area Map
57SCHEDULE 9E
Burrard and Granville Slopes Billboard Area Map
58SCHEDULE 9F
Electronic Static Image and Video Sign Area Map
59PART 10
CHINATOWN AND GASTOWN
HISTORIC SIGN DISTRICT
10.1 Intent
Part 10 contains regulations applicable to the Chinatown and Gastown Historic Sign District,
which includes the HA-1, HA-1A and HA-2 zoning districts and all other areas listed in Part 7 as
shown on Schedule 10A.The intent of the Chinatown and Gastown Historic Sign District is to
support and encourage a wide variety of authentic sign types that reflect and enhance the
historic character of Chinatown and Gastown areas.
In the HA-1and HA-1A (Chinatown) zoning districts, colourful projecting signs using neon or
neon-like LED lighting, are encouraged to revitalize and support the area’s traditional vibrant
night-time and ambient lighting. Signs with Chinese text and traditional painted window signs
reflecting the rich history of the area are also encouraged. In the HA-2 (Gastown) zoning
district, a wide range of sign types in keeping with the historic character of the area are
permitted.
10.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 10 of this by-law and that comply with this by-law are
permitted in the Chinatown and Gastown Historic Sign District.
10.3 Awning Signs
An awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the exterior front or side face of an awning, and projects no more than
5.0 mm from the face of the awning;
(b) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(c) extends no more than 0.50 m above the roof line of a one-storey building;
(d) does not extend above the window or any opening directly above the awning on
a building with a second storey;
(e) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 40% of the area of the
front awning face;
(f) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 80% of the area of
the sides of the awning;
(g) if located on an awning that projects over a common entrance and is supported
by posts at the end farthest from the building:
(i) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 80% of the
area of the front awning face, and
(ii) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 40% of the
area of the sides of the awning; and
(h) in the HA-2 zoning district, is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia
60sign.
10.4 Under-Awning Signs
An under-awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on premises with an entrance under the awning;
(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(c) does not project beyond the front edge of the awning; and
(d) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.30 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
10.5 Canopy Signs
A canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the HA-1 or HA-1A zoning district or those CD-1 zoning districts listed in
Schedule 10A;
(b) is on a canopy that projects more than 1.5 m from a building for at least 80% of
the length of the canopy;
(c) is on the front or side of the canopy;
(d) projects no more than 0.60 m horizontally beyond the front or side of the
canopy;
(e) if located on the roof of the canopy, is within 0.45 m of the front or side edge
of the canopy;
(f) is limited to one sign on the frontage of premises with a separate entrance;
(g) may be at the common entrance of a building and identifies the principal
occupant or building name only;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area, if the sign has a frame,
border, or background, except that copy area may exceed 40% of the sign area
if the sign has a vertical dimension less than 0.30 m;
(i) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the canopy
on the frontage of the premises, if the sign does not have a frame, border or
background;
(j) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m, except that the vertical
dimension may be increased to 2.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.0 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 1.2 m above the canopy face; and
61(k) in the case of a theatre or premises with a frontage longer than 30 m, has a
vertical dimension no greater than 1.5 m, except that the vertical dimension
may be increased to 3.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.5 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 2.0 m above the canopy face.
10.6 Under-Canopy Signs
An under-canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to one sign for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage less
than 15 m long;
(b) is limited to two signs for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage 15
m or longer;
(c) in a building that only has a common entrance, is limited to one sign for each
ground floor premises adjacent to and visible from a street, to a maximum of
one sign for every 15 m of length of the frontage of the building;
(d) does not project beyond the front edge of the canopy; and
(e) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.45 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
10.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of the premises or any recessed entrance area of the
premises;
(d) if above a common entrance, identifies the principal occupant or building name
only;
(e) in the case of premises on the second storey with a separate entrance at the
first storey, may be above the separate entrance;
(f) is above the lintel or window head of the first storey and below the window sill
of the second storey, or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more 0.75 m above the floor of the second storey, except that a sign must not
cover a second storey window;
(g) is not painted directly on a building face;
(h) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
62frontage of premises, to a maximum of 4.5 m2;
(i) in the HA-2 zoning district:
(i) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area, if the sign has a
border, frame or background,
(ii) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background and contains a logo only,
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m, and
(iv) does not have a plastic face;
(j) despite the provisions of this by-law, is below the window head or lintel of the
first storey in the HA-1 or HA-1A zoning district, if it:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face with no door or window opening, to a
maximum of 4.5 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street more than 0.10 m;
(k) despite the provisions of this by-law, is below the window head or lintel of the
first storey in the HA-2 zoning district, if it:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face with no door or window opening, to a
maximum of 3.0 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach into a street more than 0.10 m; and
(l) may face a lane if it:
(i) is above a public entrance to premises,
(ii) contains copy that identifies the principal occupant or building name
only, and
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m and is no more than 2.5
m wide.
10.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the second storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of premises;
(d) is above the lintel or window head of the second storey and below the window
sill of the third storey or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
63more than 0.75 m above the floor of the third storey, except that a sign must
not cover a third storey window;
(e) is not painted directly on a building face;
(f) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises, to a maximum of 4.5 m2; and
(g) in the HA-2 zoning district:
(i) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background,
(ii) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background and contains a logo only,
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m, and
(iv) does not have a plastic face.
10.9 Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on any storey of a building and below 20 m above grade;
(b) is not located between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of the premises;
(d) is above the lintel or window head of the storey on which the premises is
located and below the window sill of the next storey, or in the absence of a
lintel, window head or sill, is no more than 0.75 above the floor of the next
storey, except that a sign must not cover any window on the storey above;
(e) is not painted directly on a building face;
(f) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each meter of length of the
frontage of premises, to a maximum of 4.5 m2;
(g) in the HA-2 zoning district:
(i) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background,
(ii) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background and contains a logo only,
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m, and
(iv) does not have a plastic face; and
(h) is not illuminated.
6410.10 Fascia Signs on Uppermost Storey Above the Second Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(b) is limited to one sign on a building face to a maximum of two signs on a
building;
(c) is positioned so that two signs on adjoining building faces are not within 2.0 m
of a common corner;
(d) identifies the principal occupant or building name only;
(e) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols or logos only,
except that a sign more than 55 m in height must contain copy consisting of a
logo only; and
(f) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the length of the distance measured
from grade to the bottom of the sign and multiplied by the width of the
building face at the bottom of the sign, to a maximum of 47 m2.
10.11 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in a parking lot or parking garage;
(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of a site to a maximum of four signs on
a site;
(c) is no more than 4.5 m in height;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the site to a maximum of 1.2 m2, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of the sign if the sign area is located at least 2.75 m
above grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(e) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(f) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign contains a
logo only;
(g) in the HA-2 District, does not have a plastic face;
(h) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building;
(i) is not within 45 m of another free-standing sign on the site, measured along
the frontages of the site;
65(j) is not on the same frontage of a site as a projecting sign that identifies the
same occupant;
(k) if encroaching over a street:
(i) is perpendicular to the property line abutting the street, and
(ii) encroaches no more than 25% of the distance between the sign and the
nearest intersecting property lines, to a maximum encroachment of 3.0
m.
10.12 Illuminated Signs
An illuminated sign is permitted, that:
(a) if externally illuminated, must have lighting fixtures that project less than 0.60
m from the face of the building; and
(b) in the HA-2 District may only be illuminated by means of neon lighting or neon-
like LED lighting.
10.13 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) has a copy area:
(i) no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of the
premises,
(ii) with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m, and
(iii) no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(b) is displayed only during construction.
10.14 Mansard Roof Signs
A mansard roof sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the frontage of premises;
(b) is on a building facing a vacant area or a parking area on the premises or on
the site, if the sign is at least 7.5 m from the nearest property line;
(c) is limited to one sign on premises;
(d) is no less than 0.30 m below the roof line;
(e) is no more than 8.0 m in height;
(f) projects no more than 0.25 m from the roof at the base of the sign;
(g) has a sign area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
66applicable building face;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area; and
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m.
10.15 Projecting Signs
A projecting sign is permitted, that:
(a) is perpendicular to the building face, except that on a corner site, it may be on
an angle at the corner of the building;
(b) is at least 1.0 m from an adjacent property line or premises, measured
horizontally;
(c) has a space no greater than 0.30 m between the sign and the building face,
excluding architectural features;
(d) is limited to:
(i) one sign for each premises at the first storey, and
(ii) for each building frontage less than 100 m long, one additional sign,
which may include the names of occupants and the building name, or
(iii) for each building frontage 100 m or longer, two additional signs which
may include the names of occupants and the building name;
(e) on a one-storey building, is the lower of 6.0 m in height or 1.8 m above the
roof line;
(f) on a multi-storey building, is the lower of 21 m in height or the roof line,
except that:
(i) if the second storey is set back 4.5 m or less from the front face of the
first storey at the sign location, the sign must not extend above the
roof line of the first storey, and
(ii) if the second storey is set back more than 4.5 m from the front face of
the first storey at the sign location, the sign is the lower of 6.0 m in
height or 1.8 m above the roof line of the first storey;
(g) has a support structure extending no more than 0.30 m above the roof line;
(h) projects no more than 4.5 m from the building face;
(i) has a sign area that may be at least 0.75 m2 and must be the lesser of 2.3 m2,
or 0.15 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of premises, excluding any
sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the sign area
excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(j) in the HA-1 and HA-1A zoning districts, has a sign area that may be increased
by up to 100% if the sign is illuminated using neon lighting or neon-like LED
67lighting;
(k) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(l) may have a copy area that is greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign
contains a logo only;
(m) in the HA-2 zoning district, does not have a plastic face, except for a circular
parking sign;
(n) is not on the same frontage of a site as a free-standing sign that identifies the
same occupant;
(o) may encroach over a street at least 0.60 m, except that:
(i) it must not encroach more than 25% of the distance between the sign
and the nearest property line of an adjacent site or the point where the
frontages of adjacent premises meet, to a maximum of 1.8 m, and
(ii) if serving two or more adjacent or shared premises, the calculation of
the permitted encroachment must be based on the combined frontages
of those premises; and
(p) for the purpose of calculating the frontage of premises located at a corner,
frontage means the average length of the two frontages of the premises.
10.16 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
A sign in conjunction with a mural is permitted, that:
(a) may include the date of installation of the mural and:
(i) the name of the building, or
(ii) the name of the principal occupant, or
(iii) the corporate logo of the principal occupant;
(b) is installed at the same time, using the same method of installation and type
and quality of materials as the mural;
(c) has a copy area no greater than 10% of the mural area;
(d) has a copy area no higher than 20 m above grade; and
(e) is removed when the mural is removed.
68SCHEDULE 10A
Chinatown and Gastown Historic Sign District Map
69PART 11
WEST END SIGN DISTRICT
11.1 Intent
Part 11 contains regulations that apply to the West End Sign District, which includes the RM-5,
RM-5A, RM-5B, RM-5C, RM-5D and RM-6 mixed use zoning districts shown in Schedule 11A, as
listed in Part 7 of this by-law. The intent of the West End Sign District is to preserve the West
End residential neighbourhood character by regulating signs on residential uses, as well as
signs on retail, office, service and institutional uses permitted in the RM-5, RM-5A, RM-5B,
RM-5C, RM-5D and RM-6 mixed-use zones. Signs in the Robson, Denman and Davie commercial
villages in the West End are regulated under the Commercial, Mixed Use and Industrial Sign
District regulations in Part 8 of this by-law.
11.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 11 of this by-law and that comply with this by-law are
permitted in the West End Sign District.
11.3 Awning Signs
An awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district or on premises where there is a
retail or service use;
(b) is on the exterior front or side face of an awning, and projects no more than
5.0 mm from the face of the awning;
(c) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(d) extends no more than 0.50 m above the roof line of a one-storey building;
(e) does not extend above the window or any opening directly above the awning on
a building with a second storey;
(f) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 40% of the area of the
front awning face;
(g) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 80% of the area of
the sides of the awning;
(h) if located on an awning that projects over a common entrance and is supported
by posts at the end farthest from the building:
(i) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 80% of the
area of the front awning face,
(ii) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 40% of the
area of the sides of the awning; and
(i) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
11.4 Under-Awning Signs
70An under-awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district on premises where there is a
retail or service use;
(b) is on premises with an entrance under the awning;
(c) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(d) does not project beyond the front edge of the awning; and
(e) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.30 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
11.5 Canopy Signs
A canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district or on premises where there is a
retail or service use;
(b) is on the front or side of the canopy;
(c) projects no more than 0.60 m horizontally beyond the front or side of the
canopy;
(d) if located on the roof of a canopy, is within 0.45 m of the front or side edge of
the canopy;
(e) is limited to one sign on the frontage of premises with a separate entrance;
(f) may be at the common entrance of a building and identifies the principal
occupant or building name only;
(g) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m, except that the vertical
dimension may be increased to 2.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.0 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 1.2 m above the canopy face;
(j) in the case of a theatre or premises with a frontage longer than 30 m, has a
vertical dimension no greater than 1.5 m, except that the vertical dimension
may be increased to 3.0 m for letters or logos if:
71(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.5 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 2.0 m above the canopy face;
(k) on premises where there is a retail or service use, has a vertical dimension no
greater than 0.40 m;
(l) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign; and
(m) on premises where there is a hotel use, is not illuminated.
11.6 Under-Canopy Signs
An under-canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district or on premises where there is a
retail or service use;
(b) is limited to one sign for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage less
than 15 m long;
(c) is limited to two signs for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage 15
m or longer;
(d) in a building that only has a common entrance, is limited to one sign for each
ground floor premises adjacent to and visible from a street, to a maximum of
one sign for every 15 m of length of the frontage of the building;
(e) does not project beyond the front edge of the canopy; and
(f) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.45 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
11.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage or any recessed entrance area of premises;
(d) if above a common entrance, identifies the principal occupant or building name
only;
(e) in the case of premises occupying a second storey with a separate entrance at
the first storey, may be above the separate entrance;
(f) is above the lintel or window head of the first storey and below the window sill
of the second storey or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the second storey, except that a sign must
72not cover a second storey window;
(g) on premises where there is a retail or service use, has a sign area no greater
than 1.2 m2;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a border,
frame or background;
(i) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background and contains a logo only;
(j) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises if the sign does not have a frame, border or
background;
(k) has a combined copy area for all fascia signs that does not exceed 0.60 m2 for
each metre of length of the frontage of premises regardless of whether the
signs have a frame, border or background;
(l) on premises where there is a hotel use, has a vertical dimension no greater
than 0.60 m; and
(m) despite the provisions of this by-law, may be below the window head or lintel
of the first storey, if it:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face without any door or window opening to a
maximum of 3.0 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street more than 0.10 m.
11.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the second storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of premises;
(d) is above the lintel or window head of the second storey and below the window
sill of the third storey, or in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the third storey, except that a sign must
not cover a third storey window;
(e) on premises where there is a retail or service use, has a sign area no greater
than 1.2 m2;
(f) includes copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 0.40 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises; and
73(h) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.80 m;
(i) on premises where there is a hotel use, has a vertical dimension no greater
than 0.60 m; and
(j) in the case of premises occupying the first and second storey, is limited to one
sign on either the first or second storey.
11.9 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in a RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district, or a site where there is a hotel
use, community centre, fire hall, neighbourhood house, place of worship or
school;
(b) is on the frontage of a site;
(c) is limited to one sign on a site;
(d) is no more than 6.0 m in height for all uses, except that a sign for a hotel use
must be no more than 1.2 m in height;
(e) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the site, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of the sign if the sign area is at least 2.75 m above
grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(f) has a maximum sign area for the applicable zoning district or use as set out in
Table 11.1:
Table 11.1
Free-Standing Sign – Maximum Sign Area
Zoning district or use Maximum Permitted Sign Area
Hotel 1.0 m2
RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning 3.3 m2
district, other than hotel
Community centre, fire hall, 3.3 m2
neighbourhood house, place of
worship or school
(g) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(h) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign contains a
logo only;
74(i) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 11.14 of this by-law;
(j) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building;
(k) is not on the same frontage of a site as a projecting sign that identifies the
same occupant; and
(l) if encroaching over a street:
(i) is perpendicular to the property line abutting a street, and
(ii) encroaches no more than 25% of the distance between the sign and the
nearest intersecting property lines, to a maximum encroachment of 3.0
m.
11.10 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) has a copy area:
(i) no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of the
premises,
(ii) with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m, and
(iii) no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(b) is displayed only during construction.
11.11 Mansard Roof Signs
A mansard roof sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in the RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district, or on premises where there is a
retail or service use;
(b) is on the frontage of premises;
(c) is on a building facing a vacant area or a parking area on the premises or on
the site, if the sign is at least 7.5 m from the nearest property line;
(d) is limited to one sign on premises;
(e) is no less than 0.30 m below the roof line;
(f) is no more than 8.0 m in height;
(g) projects no more than 0.25 m from the roof at the base of the sign;
(h) has a sign area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
applicable building face;
(i) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area; and
75(j) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m;
11.12 Projecting Signs
A projecting sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in an RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district;
(b) is perpendicular to the building face, except that on a corner site, it may be on
an angle at the corner of the building;
(c) is at least 1.0 m from an adjacent property line or premises, measured
horizontally;
(d) has a space no greater than 0.30 m between the sign and the building face,
excluding architectural features;
(e) is limited to:
(i) one sign for each premises located at the first storey, and
(ii) for each building frontage less than 100 m long, one additional sign
which may include the names of occupants and the building name, or
(iii) for each building frontage 100 m or longer, two additional signs, which
may include the names of occupants and the building name;
(f) on a one-storey building, is the lower of 6.0 m in height or 1.8 m above the
roof line;
(g) on a multi-storey building, is the lower of 21 m in height or the roof line,
except that:
(i) if the second storey is set back 4.5 m or less from the front face of the
first storey at the sign location, the sign must not extend above the
roof line of the first storey, and
(ii) if the second storey is set back more than 4.5 m from the front face of
the first storey at the sign location, the sign is the lower of 6.0 m in
height or 1.8 m above the roof line of the first storey;
(h) has a support structure extending no more than 0.30 m above the roof line;
(i) projects no more than 4.5 m from the building face;
(j) has a sign area which may be at least 0.75 m2 and must be the lesser of 7.0 m2,
or 0.23 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of premises, excluding any
sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the sign area
excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(k) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(l) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign contains a
logo only;
76(m) is not on the same frontage of a site as a free-standing sign that identifies the
same occupant;
(n) may encroach over a street at least 0.60 m, except that:
(i) it must not encroach more than 25% of the distance between the sign
and the nearest property line of an adjacent site or the point where the
frontages of adjoining premises meet, to a maximum of 3.0 m, and
(ii) if serving two or more adjacent or shared premises, the calculation of
the permitted encroachment must be based on the combined frontages
of the premises; and
(o) for the purpose of calculating the frontage of premises located at a corner,
frontage means the average length of the two frontages of the premises.
11.13 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
A sign in conjunction with a mural is permitted, that:
(a) is in the RM-5C, RM-5D or RM-6 zoning district;
(b) may include the date of installation of the mural and:
(i) the name of the building, or
(ii) the name of the principal occupant, or
(iii) the corporate logo of the principal occupant;
(c) is installed at the same time, using the same method of installation and type
and quality of materials as the mural;
(d) has a copy area no greater than 10% of the mural area;
(e) has a copy area no higher than 20 m above grade; and
(f) is removed when the mural is removed.
11.14 Electronic Message Signs
An electronic message sign is permitted, that:
(a) is a free-standing sign; and
(b) is limited to one sign on a site where there is a community centre, fire hall,
neighbourhood house, place of worship or school.
77SCHEDULE 11A
West End Sign District Map
78PART 12
GRANVILLE STREET
SIGN DISTRICT
12.1 Intent
Part 12 contains regulations that apply to the Granville Street Sign District, which includes the
area shown on Schedule 12A, as listed in Part 7 of this by-law. The intent of the Granville
Street Sign District is to encourage signs that reflect the historic role of Granville Street as a
retail and entertainment centre and complement its unique and vibrant character. Colourful
neon signs are encouraged, as well as moving signs, signs with animated copy and certain
types of electronic signs.
12.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 12 of this by-law and that comply with this by-law are
permitted in the Granville Street Sign District.
12.3 Awning Signs
An awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the exterior front or side face of an awning, and projects no more than
5.0 mm from the face of the awning;
(b) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(c) extends no more than 0.50 m above the roof line of a one-storey building;
(d) does not extend above the window or any opening directly above the awning on
a building with a second storey;
(e) has a copy area that may be equal to the sign area, if the copy area, consisting
of letters and logos, on the front awning face is no greater than 50% of the
area of the front awning face;
(f) has a copy area, consisting of letters and logos, on each side of the awning that
is no greater than 80% of the area of the sides of the awning;
(g) if located on an awning that projects over a common entrance and is supported
by posts at the end farthest from the building:
(i) has a copy area, consisting of letters and logos, on the front awning
face that is no greater than 80% of the area of the front awning face,
and
(ii) has a copy area, consisting of letters and logos, on each side of the
awning that is no greater than 50% of the area of the sides of the
awning; and
(h) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
7912.4 Under-Awning Signs
An under-awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on premises with an entrance under the awning;
(b) is limited to two signs on each frontage of premises;
(c) does not project beyond the front edge of the awning; and
(d) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m.
12.5 Canopy Signs
A canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the front or side of the canopy;
(b) projects no more than 0.60 m horizontally beyond the front or side of the
canopy;
(c) if illuminated by neon lighting, may be on the roof of a canopy;
(d) is limited to one sign on the frontage of premises with a separate entrance;
(e) may be at the common entrance of a building and identifies the principal
occupant or building name only;
(f) if illuminated by neon lighting, may obstruct a window on a building where
there is no residential or hotel use, if the sign covers no more than 30% of the
glass surface of a window;
(g) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(i) if not illuminated by neon lighting, has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0
m, except that the vertical dimension may be increased to 2.0 m for letters or
logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.0 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 1.2 m above the canopy face; and
(j) if not illuminated by neon lighting and on a theatre or premises with a frontage
longer than 30 m, has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.5 m, except that
the vertical dimension may be increased to 3.0 m for letters or logos if:
80(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.5 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 2.0 m above the canopy face;
(k) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 12.16 of this by-law;
(l) if illuminated by neon lighting, must include the name of the business in
exposed neon tubing; and
(m) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
12.6 Under-Canopy Signs
An under-canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to two signs on the frontage of premises;
(b) in a building that only has a common entrance, is limited to one sign for each
ground floor premises adjacent to and visible from a street, to a maximum of
one sign for every 15 m of length of the frontage of the building;
(c) does not project beyond the front edge of the canopy; and
(d) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m.
12.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage or any recessed entrance area of premises;
(d) if above a common entrance, identifies the principal occupant or building name
only;
(e) in the case of premises occupying a second storey with a separate entrance at
the first storey, may be above the separate entrance;
(f) on a building where there is no residential or hotel use, may be above the
premises if no more than 50% of the sign area extends into the second storey
and the sign does not cover a second storey window, except that if illuminated
by neon lighting, the sign may cover up to 30% of a second storey window;
(g) in the case of premises below a residential or hotel use, is above the lintel or
window head of the first storey and below the window sill of the second
storey, or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no more than 0.75
m above the floor of the second storey, except that a sign must not cover a
second storey window;
81(h) has a copy area that may be equal to the sign area, if the copy area comprised
of letters and logos is no greater than 50% of the sign area and the sign has a
frame, border or background;
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises, if the sign does not have a frame, border or
background;
(j) a sign containing animated copy or a sign illuminated by neon lighting that does
not a frame, border or background, may have a sign area greater than 0.30 m2
for each metre of length of the frontage of the premises;
(k) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 12.16 of this by-law;
(l) if illuminated by neon lighting, includes the name of the business in exposed
neon tubing;
(m) despite the provisions of this by-law, may be below the window head or lintel
of the first storey, if it:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face with no door or window opening, to a
maximum of 3.0 m2, except that if painted on a wall, the sign area may
be no greater than 4.0 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street more than 0.10 m; and
(n) may face a lane, if it:
(i) is above a public entrance to the premises,
(ii) contains copy that identifies the principal occupant or building name
only, and
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m and is no more than 2.5
m wide.
12.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the second storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of premises;
(d) on a building where there is no residential or hotel use, may be above the
premises if no more than 50% of the sign area extends above the third storey
and the sign does not cover a third storey window, except that if illuminated
by neon lighting, the sign may cover up to 30% of a third storey window;
(e) in the case of premises below a residential or hotel use, is above the lintel or
window head of the second storey and below the window sill of the third
82storey, or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no more than 0.75
m above the floor of the third storey, except that a sign must not cover a third
storey window;
(f) has a copy area that may be equal to the sign area, if the copy area comprised
of letters and logos is no greater than 50% of the sign area and the sign has a
frame, border or background;
(g) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises, if the sign does not have a frame, border or
background;
(h) if a sign containing animated copy or a sign illuminated by neon lighting may
have a sign area greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage
of the premises, if the sign does not have a frame, border or background;
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m;
(j) if illuminated by neon lighting, includes the name of the business in exposed
neon tubing; and
(k) in the case of premises occupying both the first and second storey, is limited to
one sign on the first or second storey.
12.9 Upper Level Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(b) is limited to two signs on a building face, to a maximum of two signs on a
building;
(c) is positioned so that two signs on adjoining building faces are not within 2.0 m
of a common corner;
(d) identifies the principal occupant or building name only;
(e) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only, except that a sign more than 55 m in height must contain copy consisting
of a logo only; and
(f) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the area formed by the distance from
grade to the bottom of the sign multiplied by the width of the building face at
the bottom of the sign, to a maximum of 47 m2.
12.10 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the frontage of a site;
(b) is limited to one sign on a site;
83(c) is no more than 5.0 m in height;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the site to a maximum sign area of 1.0 m2, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of the sign if the sign area is at least 2.75 m above
grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only,
except that a sign illuminated by neon, or a sign with animated copy may have
a maximum sign area of 4.0 m2;
(e) has a copy area that may be equal to the sign area, if the copy area comprised
of letters and logos only is no greater than 50% of the sign area;
(f) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 12.16 of this by-law;
(g) if illuminated by neon lighting, must include the name of the business in
exposed neon tubing;
(h) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building;
(i) is not on the same frontage of a site as a projecting sign that identifies the
same occupant; and
(j) does not encroach over a street.
12.11 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) has a copy area:
(i) no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of
premises,
(ii) with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m, and
(iii) no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(b) is displayed only during construction.
12.12 Mansard Roof Signs
A mansard roof sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the frontage of premises;
(b) is on a building facing a vacant area or a parking area on the premises or on
the site, if the sign is at least 7.5 m from the nearest property line;
(c) is limited to one sign on premises;
84(d) is no less than 0.30 m below the roof line;
(e) is no more than 8.0 m in height;
(f) projects no more than 0.25 m from the roof at the base of the sign;
(g) unless illuminated by neon lighting, has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for
each metre of length of the applicable building face to a maximum of 2.0 m2;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m; and
(j) if illuminated by neon lighting, must include the business name in exposed
neon tubing.
12.13 Moving Signs
A moving sign is permitted, that:
(a) is a projecting sign;
(b) faces Granville Street, between West Hastings Street and Nelson Street;
(c) is on the frontage of a building; and
(d) if illuminated by neon lighting, must include the name of the business in
exposed neon tubing.
12.14 Projecting Signs
A projecting sign is permitted, that:
(a) is perpendicular to the building face except that on a corner site, it may be on
an angle at the corner;
(b) is at least 1.0 m from an adjacent property line or premises, measured
horizontally;
(c) has a space no greater than 0.30 m between the sign and the building face,
excluding architectural features;
(d) is limited to one sign for each premises at the first storey;
(e) if illuminated by neon lighting:
(i) on a building frontage less than 100 m long, may have one additional
sign which may include the names of occupants and the building name,
or
(ii) on a building frontage 100 m or longer, may have two additional signs
which may include the names of occupants and the building name;
(f) if illuminated by neon lighting, may obstruct the ventilation, access or
85operation of a window on a building where there is no residential or hotel use,
if it covers no more than 30% of the glass surface of a window;
(g) on a one-storey building, is the lower of 6.0 m in height or 1.8 m above the
roof line, except that:
(i) on sites between Nelson Street and Drake Street, the sign must not
extend above the roof line, and
(ii) on sites between Robson Street and Nelson Street, moving elements of
the sign must not extend above the roof line;
(h) on a multi-storey building, is the lower of 21 m in height or the roof line,
except that:
(i) if the second storey is set back 4.5 m or less from the front face of the
first storey at the sign location, the sign must not extend above the
roof line of the first storey, and
(ii) if the second storey is set back more than 4.5 m from the front face of
the first storey at the sign location, the sign is the lower of 6.0 m in
height or 1.8 m above the roof line of the first storey;
(i) if illuminated by neon lighting, may extend above the roof line on sites
between Nelson Street and West Hastings Street, no more than 40% of the
height of the building, except that:
(i) the sign must be no more than 27 m in height, and
(ii) on sites between Robson Street and Nelson Street, elements of a
moving sign must not project above the roof line;
(j) has a support structure extending no more than 0.30 m above the roof line;
(k) projects no more than 4.5 m from the building face;
(l) has a sign area that:
(i) may be at least 0.75 m2,
(ii) is no greater than 2.0 m2,
(iii) if illuminated by neon lighting, may be greater than 2.0 m2, and
(iv) excludes any sign area comprised of embellishments to a maximum of
20% of the sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments
only;
(m) has a copy area that may be equal to the sign area, if the copy area comprised
of letters and logos only is no greater than 50% of the sign area;
(n) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 12.16 of this by-law;
(o) if illuminated by neon lighting, includes the name of the business in exposed
86neon tubing;
(p) is not on the same frontage of a site as a free-standing sign that identifies the
same occupant;
(q) may encroach over a street at least 0.60 m, except that:
(i) it must not encroach more than 25% of the distance between the sign
and the nearest property line of an adjacent site or the point where the
frontages of adjoining premises meet, to a maximum encroachment of
2.0 m,
(ii) if serving two or more adjacent or shared premises, the calculation of
the permitted encroachment must be based on the combined frontages
of those premises, to a maximum of 2.0 m,
(iii) a moving sign, a sign with animated copy or a sign illuminated by neon
lighting, may encroach up to 4.0 m, and
(iv) a projecting sign must not be within 0.60 m of a street tree, lamp
standard, utility wire, bus shelter, or other structure on a street; and
(r) for the purpose of calculating the frontage of premises located on a corner,
frontage means the average length of the two frontages of the premises.
12.15 Signs with Animated Copy
A sign containing animated copy is permitted, that:
(a) is a fascia sign or projecting sign;
(b) faces Granville Street, between West Hastings Street and Nelson Street;
(c) is on the frontage of a building; and
(d) if illuminated by neon lighting, must include the name of the business in
exposed neon tubing.
12.16 Electronic Message Signs
An electronic message sign is permitted, that:
(a) is a canopy, fascia, free-standing or projecting sign;
(b) is on a site between West Hastings Street and Nelson Street;
(c) is limited to one canopy, fascia, free-standing or projecting sign on a site;
(d) if a fascia sign on the first storey, is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(e) if a fascia sign on the second storey, is no more than 9.0 m in height; and
(f) if a canopy, fascia, free-standing or projecting sign, has a copy area no greater
than 80% of the sign area to a maximum of:
87(i) 4.0 m2 on a site smaller than 0.40 ha, or
(ii) 8.0 m2 on a site 0.40 ha or larger.
12.17 Electronic Static Image Signs
An electronic static image sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in a window on the first storey of a building;
(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(c) is not on the same premises as an electronic video sign;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 30% of the total area of contiguous glass or
glass panes separated by mullions contained within a window frame, to a
maximum of 2.5 m2;
(e) if on the same frontage of the premises as a window sign, the combined sign
area of all window signs and an electronic static image sign, is no greater than
30% of the total area of contiguous glass or glass panes separated by mullions
contained within a window frame; and
(f) may include first party advertising to a maximum of 100% of the copy area.
12.18 Electronic Video Signs
An electronic video sign is permitted, that:
(a) is in a window on the first storey of a building;
(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(c) is not on the same premises as an electronic static image sign;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 30% of the total area of contiguous glass or
glass panes separated by mullions contained within a window frame, to a
maximum of 2.5 m2;
(e) if on the same frontage of the premises as a window sign, the combined sign
area of all window signs and an electronic video sign, is no greater than 30% of
the total area of contiguous glass or glass panes separated by mullions
contained within a window frame; and
(f) may include first party advertising to a maximum of 100% of the copy area.
12.19 Signs with Manual Changeable Copy
Signs with manual changeable copy are only permitted on premises between West Hastings
and Nelson Street where there is a theatre use.
12.20 Site Specific Regulations
The following site specific signs are permitted in the Granville Street Sign District:
88(a) 798 Granville Street
Two electronic video signs, that:
(i) are on the northeast corner of the building,
(ii) at the third storey,
(iii) each have a sign area no greater than 28 m2,
(iv) may be within 30 m of a dwelling unit and 15 m of a traffic control
signal,
(v) may operate 24 hours a day, and
(vi) may display third party advertising.
89SCHEDULE 12A
Granville Street Sign District Map
90PART 13
ROGERS ARENA
SIGN DISTRICT
13.1 Intent
Part 13 contains regulations that apply to the Rogers Arena Sign District which is the area
shown in Schedule 13A, as listed in Part 7. The Rogers Arena Sign District includes Rogers
Arena, a recreational and cultural hub. The intent of the Rogers Arena Sign District in regards
to Rogers Arena is to allow for recognition of corporate sponsors of events, larger logos and
wayfinding signs. Part 13 also regulates signs on mixed use buildings and residential towers
surrounding Rogers Arena.
13.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 13 and that comply with this by-law are permitted in the
Rogers Arena Sign District.
13.3 Awning Signs
An awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the exterior front or side face of an awning, and projects no more than
5.0 mm from the face of the awning;
(b) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(c) extends no more than 0.50 m above the roof line of a one-storey building;
(d) does not extend above the window or any opening directly above the awning on
a building with a second storey;
(e) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 40% of the area of the
front awning face;
(f) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 80% of the area of
the sides of the awning;
(g) if located on an awning that projects over a common entrance and is supported
by posts at the end farthest from the building:
(i) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 80% of the
area of the front awning face, and
(ii) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 40% of the
area of the sides of the awning; and
(h) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
13.4 Under-Awning Signs
An under-awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on premises with an entrance under the awning;
91(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(c) does not project beyond the front edge of the awning; and
(d) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.30 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
13.5 Billboard Signs
A billboard sign is permitted, that:
(a) is not:
(i) above the Georgia or Dunsmuir viaduct,
(ii) above the surface of the rails of a rapid transit guideway,
(iii) within 5.0 m of a street if the sign face is parallel to the street or forms
an angle of less than 30 degrees with the street,
(iv) within 15 m of any sign containing third party advertising and located
at a bus shelter,
(v) within 60 m of the Residential Sign District,
(vi) within 50 m of any other billboard sign, except a billboard sign
mounted parallel to it and on the opposite side of the same building,
(vii) within 60 m of the centre line of the rails of any rapid transit guideway
or passenger railway, or
(viii) within 50 m of an elevated bridge entrance or exit ramp, if the height
of the billboard sign exceeds the height of the ramp;
(b) is limited to four signs on a site, not including the multiple faces on a single
billboard sign resulting from indexing, except that two parallel copy areas
mounted back to back on the same structural support are considered to be one
billboard sign;
(c) is enclosed to conceal all components of the back of the copy area, if
consisting of a single face;
(d) if mounted on a building, projects no more than 0.60 m, excluding any
externally mounted lighting;
(e) is no more than:
(i) 6.25 m in height, if more than 3.7 m in width, and
(ii) 7.0 m in height, if 3.7 m or less in width;
(f) has a sign area no greater than 21.5 m2;
(g) does not encroach over a street; and
92(h) if located within 20 m of the frontage of a building that contains a public
entrance, is no closer to the street than:
(i) the building face, or
(ii) if there are two building faces fronting the street, any point along a
straight line connecting the nearest points of the two building faces.
13.6 Canopy Signs
A canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the front or side of the canopy;
(b) projects no more than 0.60 m horizontally beyond the front or side of the
canopy;
(c) if located on the roof of a canopy, is within 0.45 m of the front or side edge of
the canopy;
(d) is limited to one sign on the frontage of each premises with a separate
entrance;
(e) may be at the common entrance of a building and identifies the principal
occupant or building name only;
(f) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(h) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m, except that the vertical
dimension may be increased to 2.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.0 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 1.2 m above the canopy face;
(i) for a theatre or premises with a frontage longer than 30 m, has a vertical
dimension no greater than 1.5 m, except that the vertical dimension may be
increased to 3.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.5 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 2.0 m above the canopy face; and
(j) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
13.7 Under-Canopy Signs
93An under-canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to one sign for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage less
than 15 m long;
(b) is limited to two signs for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage 15
m or longer;
(c) in a building that only has a common entrance, is limited to one sign for each
ground floor premises adjacent to and visible from a street, to a maximum of
one sign for every 15 m of length of the frontage of the building;
(d) does not project beyond the front edge of the canopy; and
(e) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.45 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
13.8 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage or any recessed entrance area of the premises;
(d) is on a wall facing a vacant area or a parking area on premises or on a site, if
the sign is at least 7.5 m from the nearest property line;
(e) if above a common entrance, identifies the principal occupant or building name
only;
(f) in the case of premises occupying a second storey with a separate entrance at
the first storey, may be above the separate entrance;
(g) is above the lintel or window head of the first storey and below the window sill
of the second storey, or in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the second storey, except that a sign must
not cover a second storey window;
(h) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area, if the sign has a border,
frame or background;
(i) may have a copy area that is greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background and contains a logo only;
(j) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of premises if the sign does not have a frame, border or background;
(k) has a combined copy area for all fascia signs that does not exceed 0.60 m2 for
each metre of length of the frontage of premises, regardless of whether the
signs have a frame, border or background;
94(l) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 13.17 of this by-law;
(m) despite the provisions of this by-law, may be below the window head or lintel
of the first storey, if it:
(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face with no door or window opening, to a
maximum of 3.0 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street more than 0.10 m; and
(n) may face a lane, if it:
(i) is above a public entrance to premises,
(ii) contains copy that identifies the principal occupant or building name
only, and
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m and is no more than 2.5
m wide.
13.9 Second Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the second storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of premises;
(d) is above the lintel or window head of the second storey and below the window
sill of the third storey, or in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the third storey, except that a sign must
not cover a third storey window;
(e) includes copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(f) has a copy area no greater than 0.40 m2 per metre of length of the frontage of
the premises;
(g) on a building that is not an arena, has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0
m; and
(h) in the case of premises occupying both the first and second storey, is limited to
one sign on either the first or the second storey.
13.10 Arena Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey and Below 20 M
A fascia sign is permitted that:
(a) is above the second storey of a building and below 20 m above grade;
95(b) is not between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of the premises;
(d) identifies a gate number or a restaurant use only; and
(e) in the case of a restaurant use located at level 400, may be located on level
300.
13.11 Arena Upper Level Fascia Signs Above 20 M
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the arena building;
(b) is more than 20 m above grade;
(c) is limited to two signs;
(d) includes copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(e) contains copy which may consist of a logo and a name identifying the principal
occupant or building only;
(f) if identifying the principal occupant or building name only, must not be on
adjoining building faces; and
(g) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the area formed by the distance from
grade to the bottom of the sign multiplied by the width of the building face at
the bottom of the sign.
13.12 Office Tower Upper Level Fascia Signs Above Second Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(b) is limited to one sign on a building face, to a maximum of four signs on a
building;
(c) is positioned so that two signs on adjoining building faces are not located
within 2.0 m of a common corner;
(d) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(e) contains copy consisting of a logo or a name identifying the principal occupant
or building only, except that a sign more than 55 m in height must contain copy
consisting of a logo only;
(f) is limited to two signs on a building identifying the name of the building, that
are not on adjoining building faces; and
96(g) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the area formed by the distance from
grade to the bottom of the sign multiplied by the width of the building face at
the bottom of the sign.
13.13 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to five signs on a site, not including a free-standing sign containing
parking information and the building name only;
(b) on a site with a frontage of 30 m or less, is no more than 8.0 m in height;
(c) on a site with a frontage longer than 8.0 m, is no more than 8.0 m in height,
except that the sign may be an additional metre in height for every additional
10 m of length of the frontage of the site, to a maximum height of 10 m;
(d) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of frontage of
the site, to a maximum of 11 m2, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of the sign if the sign area is at least 2.75 m above
grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(e) has a copy area that may be equal to the sign area;
(f) may contain electronic copy in accordance with section 13.17 of this by-law;
(g) may contain third party advertising;
(h) is not on the same frontage of a site as a projecting sign identifying the same
occupant;
(i) if encroaching over a street:
(i) has a sign area that is the lesser of 9.0 m2, or 0.30 m2 for each metre of
length of the frontage of the premises,
(ii) is perpendicular to the property line abutting the street, and
(iii) encroaches no more than 25% of the distance between the sign and the
nearest intersecting property line, to a maximum encroachment of 3.0
m.
13.14 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) has a copy area:
(i) no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of
premises,
97(ii) with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m, and
(iii) no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(b) is displayed only during construction.
13.15 Projecting Signs
A projecting sign is permitted, that:
(a) is perpendicular to the building face except that on a corner site, it may be on
an angle at the corner of the building;
(b) is at least 1.0 m from an adjacent property line or premises, measured
horizontally;
(c) has a space no greater than 0.30 m between the sign and the building face,
excluding architectural features;
(d) is limited to:
(i) one sign for each premises at the first storey, and
(ii) for each building frontage less than 100 m long, one additional sign,
which may include the names of occupants and the building name, or
(iii) for each building frontage 100 m or longer, two additional signs which
may include the names of occupants and the building name;
(e) on a one-storey building, is the lower of 6.0 m in height or 1.8 m above the
roof line;
(f) on a multi-storey building, is the lower of 21 m in height or the roof line,
except that:
(i) if the second storey is set back 4.5 m or less from the front face of the
first storey at the sign location, the sign must not extend above the
roof line of the first storey, and
(ii) if the second storey is set back more than 4.5 m from the front face of
the first storey at the sign location, the sign is the lower of 6.0 m in
height or 1.8 m above the roof line of the first storey;
(g) has a support structure extending no more than 0.30 m above the roof line;
(h) projects no more than 4.5 m from the building face;
(i) has a sign area that may at least 0.75 m2, and must be the lesser of 9.0 m2 , or
0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of the premises, excluding
any sign area comprised of embellishments to a maximum of 20% of the sign
area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(j) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
98(k) may have a copy area that is greater than 40 % of the sign area, if the sign
consists of a logo only;
(l) is not on the same frontage of a site as a free-standing sign that identifies the
same occupant;
(m) may encroach over a street at least 0.60 m, except that:
(i) it must not encroach more than 25% of the distance between the sign
and the nearest property line of an adjacent site or the point where the
frontages of adjacent premises meet, to a maximum of 3.0 m, and
(ii) if serving two or more adjacent or shared premises, the calculation of
the permitted encroachment must be based on the combined frontages
of those premises; and
(n) for the purpose of calculating the frontage of premises located at a corner,
frontage means the average length of the two frontages of the premises.
13.16 Sign in Conjunction with a Mural
A sign in conjunction with a mural is permitted, that:
(a) may include the date of installation of the mural and:
(i) the name of the building, or
(ii) the name of the principal occupant, or
(iii) the corporate logo of the principal occupant;
(b) must be installed at the same time, using the same method of installation and
type and quality of materials as the mural;
(c) has a copy area no greater than 10% of the mural area;
(d) has a copy area no higher than 20 m above grade; and
(e) is removed when the mural is removed.
13.17 Electronic Message Signs
An electronic message sign is permitted, that:
(a) is a fascia or free-standing sign;
(b) is on the site of the arena;
(c) is limited to one fascia sign on the site;
(d) if a fascia sign, provides parking information only;
(e) is limited to five free-standing signs on a site;
99(f) if a free-standing sign, may include third party advertising;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 80% of the sign area to a maximum of:
(i) 4.0 m2 on a site smaller than 0.40 ha, or
(ii) 8.0 m2 on a site 0.40 ha or larger; and
(h) must be shielded from the view of approaching motorists.
100SCHEDULE 13A
Rogers Arena Sign District Map
101PART 14
INTERNATIONAL VILLAGE
SIGN DISTRICT
14.1 Intent
Part 14 contains regulations that apply to the International Village Sign District, located
between Pender, Taylor, Keefer and Abbott Streets, as shown in Schedule 14A, and listed in
Part 7. The intent of the International Village Sign District is to encourage innovative,
prominent and colourful signs that enhance the architecture and ambience of the Village
Marketplace area.
14.2 Permitted Signs
Signs that are listed in Part 6 or Part 14 and that comply with this by-law are permitted in the
International Village Sign District.
14.3 Awning Signs
An awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the exterior front or side face of an awning, and projects no more than
5.0 mm from the face of the awning;
(b) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(c) extends no more than 0.50 m above the roof line of a one-storey building;
(d) does not extend above the window or any opening directly above the awning on
a building with a second storey;
(e) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 40% of the area of the
front awning face;
(f) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 80% of the area of
the sides of the awning;
(g) if located on an awning that projects over a common entrance and is supported
by posts at the end farthest from the building:
(i) has a copy area on the front awning face no greater than 80% of the
area of the front awning face, and
(ii) has a copy area on each side of the awning no greater than 40% of the
area of the sides of the awning; and
(h) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
14.4 Under-Awning Signs
An under-awning sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on premises with an entrance under the awning;
102(b) is limited to one sign on each frontage of premises;
(c) does not project beyond the front edge of the awning; and
(d) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.30 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
14.5 Canopy Signs
A canopy sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the front or side of the canopy;
(b) projects no more than 0.60 m horizontally beyond the front or side of the
canopy;
(c) if located on the roof of a canopy, is within 0.45 m of the front or side edge of
the canopy;
(d) is limited to one sign on the frontage of premises with a separate entrance;
(e) may be at the common entrance of a building and identifies the principal
occupant or building name only;
(f) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(h) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m, except that the vertical
dimension may be increased to 2.0 m for letters or logos, if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.0 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 1.2 m above the canopy face;
(i) in the case of a theatre or premises with a frontage longer than 30 m, has a
vertical dimension no greater than 1.5 m, except that the vertical dimension
may be increased to 3.0 m for letters or logos if:
(i) the portion of the sign that exceeds 1.5 m in vertical dimension is no
greater than 20% of the length of the canopy on the frontage of the
premises, and
(ii) the sign projects no more than 2.0 m above the canopy face; and
(j) is not on the same frontage of premises as a fascia sign.
14.6 Under-Canopy Signs
An under-canopy sign is permitted, that:
103(a) is limited to one sign for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage less
than 15 m long;
(b) is limited to two signs for premises with a separate entrance and a frontage 15
m or longer;
(c) in a building that only has a common entrance, is limited to one sign for each
ground floor premises adjacent to and visible from a street, to a maximum of
one sign for every 15 m of length of the frontage of the building;
(d) does not project beyond the front edge of the canopy; and
(e) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.45 m and is no more than 1.5 m
wide.
14.7 First Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the first storey of a building;
(b) does not extend above the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage or any recessed entrance area of premises;
(d) if above a common entrance, identifies the principal occupant or building name
only;
(e) in the case of premises occupying a second storey with a separate entrance at
the first storey, may be above the separate entrance;
(f) is above the lintel or window head of the first storey and below the window sill
of the second storey, or, in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the second storey, except that a sign must
not cover a second storey window;
(g) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area, if the sign has a border,
frame or background;
(h) may have a copy area greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign has a
border, frame or background and contains a logo only;
(i) has a copy area no greater than 0.60 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises if the sign does not have a frame, border or
background;
(j) has a combined copy area of all fascia signs that does not exceed 0.60 m2 for
each meter of length of the frontage of premises, regardless of whether the
signs have a frame, border or background;
(k) despite the provisions of this by-law, may be below the window head or lintel
of the first storey, if it:
104(i) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of
continuous building face with no door or window opening, to a
maximum of 3.0 m2, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street more than 0.10 m; and
(l) may face a lane if it:
(i) is above a public entrance to premises,
(ii) contains copy that identifies the principal occupant or building name
only, and
(iii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.60 m and is no more than 2.5
m wide.
14.8 Second Storey Fascia Signs
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is on the second storey of a building;
(b) is below the roof line;
(c) is on the frontage of premises;
(d) is above the lintel or window head of the second storey and below the window
sill of the third storey, or in the absence of a lintel, window head or sill, is no
more than 0.75 m above the floor of the third storey, except that a sign must
not cover a third storey window;
(e) includes copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols and logos
only;
(f) has a copy area no greater than 0.40 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of the premises;
(g) has a vertical dimension no greater than 1.0 m; and
(h) in the case of premises occupying both the first and second storey, is limited to
one sign on either the first or second storey.
14.9 Upper Level Fascia Signs Above the Second Storey
A fascia sign is permitted, that:
(a) is between the floor of the uppermost storey and the roof line;
(b) is limited to one sign on a building face, to a maximum of two signs on a
building;
(c) is positioned so that two signs on adjoining building faces are not within 2.0 m
of the common corner;
105(d) identifies the principal occupant or building name only;
(e) contains copy in the form of individual letters, numbers, symbols or logos only,
except that a sign more than 55 m in height must contain copy consisting of a
logo only; and
(f) has a copy area no greater than 1/40th of the length of the distance measured
from grade to the bottom of the sign and multiplied by the width of the
building face at the bottom of the sign.
14.10 Free-Standing Signs
A free-standing sign is permitted, that:
(a) is limited to one sign on each frontage of the site, to a maximum of four signs
on the site;
(b) is no more than 6.0 m in height;
(c) has a sign area no greater than 0.30 m2 for each metre of length of the
frontage of premises to a maximum of 9.0 m2, excluding:
(i) the lower 2.75 m of a free-standing sign if the sign area is at least 2.75
m above grade, and
(ii) any sign area comprised of embellishments, to a maximum of 20% of the
sign area excluding that area comprised of embellishments only;
(d) has a copy area no greater than 40% of the sign area;
(e) may have a copy area that is greater than 40% of the sign area if the sign
contains a logo only;
(f) is not within 1.5 m of a property line or 1.0 m of a building;
(g) is not within 45 m of another free-standing sign on the site, measured along
the frontages of the site; and
(h) may not encroach over a street.
14.11 Large Hoarding Signs
A hoarding sign is permitted, that:
(a) has a copy area:
(i) no greater than 1.0 m2 for each metre of length of the frontage of
premises,
(ii) with a vertical dimension no greater than 3.7 m, and
(iii) no higher than 7.3 m above grade; and
(b) is displayed only during construction.
10614.12 Projecting Signs
A projecting sign is permitted, that:
(a) is at the first storey, and:
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.80 m,
(ii) is no more than 5.0 m wide, parallel to the building face,
(iii) projects no more than 2.0 m from the building face, and
(iv) has a minimum clearance of 2.6 m;
(b) is on premises at the first storey or adjacent to a parking entrance, and:
(i) is attached to a building column,
(ii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 0.80 m,
(iii) is no more than 1.0 m wide perpendicular to the building face and 0.50
m wide parallel to the building face,
(iv) projects no more than 2.0 m from the building face, and
(v) has a minimum clearance of 2.6 m;
(c) is at the entrance to the parking garage on Abbott Street, and:
(i) has a vertical dimension no greater than .75 m,
(ii) is no more than 5.0 m wide parallel to the building face,
(iii) projects no more than 2.3 m from the building face, and
(iv) identifies the entrance to the parking garage only;
(d) is on Abbott Street directly above the sign described in subsection (c), and:
(i) has a dome shape,
(ii) is suspended in a vertical position,
(iii) is no more than 2.5 m in diameter,
(iv) projects no more than 1.0 m from the building face, and
(v) identifies the building only;
(e) is on premises at the second storey, and:
(i) is above second storey bay windows,
(ii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 2.0 m,
107(iii) is no more than 3.5 m wide, parallel to the building face, and
(iv) projects no more than 0.50 m from the supporting metal framing;
(f) is on the third storey of the building at the corner of Abbott and Keefer
Streets, and:
(i) faces Keefer Street,
(ii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 5.2 m,
(iii) is no more than 9.6 m wide, and
(iv) projects no more than 0.50 m from the building face;
(g) is on the third storey of the building at the corner of Pender and Taylor
Streets, and:
(i) faces Taylor Street,
(ii) has a vertical dimension no greater than 4.0 m,
(iii) is no more than 9.4 m wide,
(iv) projects no more than 0.50 m from the building face, and
(v) may include third party advertising for a major tenant;
(h) is on the third storey of the building at the corner of Abbott and Pender
Streets, and:
(i) has animated copy and sequenced neon lighting,
(ii) has a sign area no greater than 200 m2,
(iii) projects no more than 1.5 m from the building face, and
(iv) has a minimum clearance of 10.6 m;
(i) may be at the entrance to the building at the corner of Abbott and Keefer
Streets, and at the corner of Pender and Taylor Streets, and:
(i) is supported away from the main building structure by suspension or a
cantilevered frame,
(ii) is contained within a globe shape with a volume not exceeding 6.0 m in
diameter,
(iii) has a minimum clearance of 8.0 m and a maximum clearance of 10 m,
and
(iv) identifies the building only.
14.13 Electronic Video Signs
108An electronic video sign is permitted, that:
(a) is behind the windows of premises on the second storey of the building at the
corner of Pender and Abbott Streets;
(b) has a sign area no greater than 27 m2;
(c) may display first party advertising;
(d) is turned off between 11 p.m. and 8 a.m.; and
(e) may be within 30 m of a dwelling unit and 15 m of a traffic control signal.
109SCHEDULE 14A
International Village Sign District Map
110PART 15
RELAXATIONS
15.1 Relaxation for Unnecessary Hardship
Subject to the provisions of section 15.2 of this by-law, if, in the opinion of the Director of
Planning, enforcement of this by-law would result in unnecessary hardship, the Director of
Planning may relax:
(a) the permitted height, sign area, copy area, vertical dimension or width of a
sign; and
(b) the permitted location or number of signs on a site.
15.2 Considerations regarding Unnecessary Hardship
In determining whether or not there is unnecessary hardship sufficient to justify a relaxation
under section 15.1 of this by-law, the Director of Planning may consider:
(a) the size and location of the site or premises;
(b) the design or construction of a building or a sign;
(c) the context of the neighbourhood or sign district;
(d) potential impacts on existing adjacent land uses;
(e) the heritage value of a sign or building;
(f) the topography or configuration of the site;
(g) the submission of any advisory group, property owner or tenant; and
(h) all applicable Council policies and guidelines.
15.3 Relaxation for Heritage Property and Historic Areas
Subject to the provisions of section 15.4 of this by-law, if a proposed sign is located on
heritage property or property in an area identified as a historic area in an official
development plan or a zoning by-law, the Director of Planning may relax:
(a) the permitted height, sign area, copy area, vertical dimension or width of a
sign; and
(b) the permitted location or number of signs on a site.
15.4 Considerations regarding Heritage Property and Historic Areas
In determining whether or not to relax the provisions of this by-law in accordance with
section 15.3 of this by-law, the Director of Planning may consider:
(a) the heritage value of a sign or building;
(b) the design and construction of a building;
111(c) the context of the neighbourhood or sign district;
(d) potential impacts on adjacent land uses;
(e) the topography or configuration of the site;
(f) the submission of any advisory group, property owner or tenant; and
(g) all applicable Council policies and guidelines.
15.5 Relaxation for Historic Signs
Subject to the provisions of section 15.6 of this by-law if, in the opinion of the Director of
Planning, a proposed sign is an historic sign and enforcement of this by-law might result in
the loss of the historic sign, the Director of Planning may relax the provisions of this by-law.
15.6 Considerations regarding Historic Signs
In determining whether or not to relax the provisions of this by-law in accordance with
section 15.5 of this by-law, the Director of Planning may consider:
(a) the heritage value of a sign or building;
(b) the design and construction of a building;
(c) the context of the neighbourhood or sign district;
(d) potential impacts on adjacent land uses;
(e) the topography or configuration of the site;
(f) the submission of any advisory group, property owner or tenant; and
(g) all applicable Council policies and guidelines.
15.7 Relaxation for Special Event
The Director of Planning may relax the provisions of this by-law if:
(a) the proposed sign is in relation to a special event; and
(b) the Director of Planning first considers all applicable Council policies and
guidelines.
15.8 Relaxation for New Technology
The Director of Planning may relax the provisions of this by-law if:
(a) in the opinion of the Director of Planning the sign uses or incorporates new
technology not contemplated by this by-law; and
(b) the Director of Planning first considers all applicable Council policies and
guidelines.
11215.9 Conditions on Relaxation
Any relaxation approved by the Director of Planning pursuant to this Part may be limited in
time and may be subject to conditions including, but not limited to conditions related to:
(a) the removal of existing signs on a site;
(b) restrictions on the location, number and type of new and existing signs on a
site;
(c) controls on light levels or hours of operation of illuminated signs;
(d) new or additional landscaping;
(e) other upgrades or changes to existing signs on site; and
(f) safety and construction matters.
15.10 Refusal of Relaxation
Despite the provisions of this Part, the Director of Planning must not relax the provisions of
this by-law if, in the opinion of the Director of Planning:
(a) a relaxation of the regulations would alter the essential character of the
neighbourhood or sign district;
(b) the proposed sign is not consistent with the overall intent and purpose of the
regulations;
(c) the proposed sign might impact public safety; or
(d) the proposed sign will negatively affect neighbouring properties.
15.11 Reconsideration by Council
An owner may request that Council reconsider a decision of the Director of Planning under
this Part, by delivering a request in writing to the City Clerk within 14 days of the decision,
setting out the reasons for the request.
15.12 Timing of Reconsideration
Council must reconsider the decision of the Director of Planning within a reasonable time and
may uphold, overturn or vary the decision.
PART 16
SIGN CONSTRUCTION
16.1 General Construction
All signs must:
(a) be designed and constructed to resist wind, seismic, and dead loads;
(b) have bracing systems designed and constructed to transfer lateral forces to the
113foundations;
(c) be constructed so that loads of signs on buildings are transmitted through the
structural frame of the building to the ground without overstressing the
elements of the structural frame; and
(d) comply with all applicable provisions of this by-law and the Building By-law.
16.2 Drawings and Specifications
In addition to the requirements in section 3.3 of this by-law, the City Building Inspector or the
Director of Planning may require further technical information related to a sign permit
application, to the satisfaction of the City Building Inspector, including but not limited to:
(a) complete drawings and specifications related to construction of the sign;
(b) documentation confirming that the building on which the sign is to be erected
is capable of supporting the additional structural loads and stresses imposed by
the erection of the sign;
(c) reports, opinions, designs, sealed drawings and letters of assurance related to
the proposed sign and prepared by a Registered Professional Engineer or
another registered professional;
(d) technical data from the manufacturer of a combustible plastic material or from
an acceptable testing agency; and
(e) results of fire tests of combustible plastic material from an approved testing
agency.
16.3 Combustible Plastic Materials
Rigid or pliable combustible plastic components of a sign must:
(a) be approved combustible plastic or other material acceptable to the City
Building Inspector;
(b) be of sufficient strength and durability to withstand design loads prescribed in
the Building By-law; and
(c) allow for expansion and contraction of plastic material and any other material
with which it is employed.
16.4 Approved Pliable Combustible Plastic Materials
Approved pliable combustible plastic material on the face of a sign must:
(a) comply with the provisions of section 16.3 of this by-law; and
(b) if back lit, have:
(i) waterproof seams and joints,
(ii) tension-adjusting sign-face connections,
114(iii) tear-resisting reinforcement with a tensile strength of 22.5 kg per 25
mm of width capable of withstanding puncture from the impact of a
0.45 kg 25 mm steel ball, dropped from a height of 3.0 m or equivalent,
(iv) proof of conformance with ULC-S109-2003, “Standard for Flame Test of
Flame-Resistant Fabrics and Films”,
(v) a minimum clearance of 3.0 m from a building with combustible framing
or cladding, and
(vi) a minimum clearance of 3.0 m horizontally or 10 m below any
unprotected opening in an exterior wall of a building.
16.5 Other Combustible Materials
Wood, leather and similar combustible materials, other than plastics, may be used in a sign,
that:
(a) is a projecting sign;
(b) has a sign area no greater than 0.75 m²; and
(c) has a metal frame to which the combustible material is attached.
16.6 Supports and Anchorage
Sign supports and anchorage must comply with the following requirements:
(a) signs must be attached to masonry, concrete or steel by means of metal
anchors, bolts, or approved expansion screws of sufficient size and anchorage
to support the loads applied;
(b) signs must not be fastened by nails, staples or screws to wooden blocks, plugs
or nailing strips built into masonry or concrete;
(c) bolts or lag screws must not be fastened to window frames or sills;
(d) lag bolts in solid woodworks must be no less than 12.7 mm in diameter and
must penetrate the woodwork a minimum of 76 mm;
(e) cables 12.7 mm in diameter or larger must be provided with suitable sleeves,
and two cable clips must be clamped to the sleeves for each cable;
(f) turnbuckles must:
(i) be provided for all supporting cables, and
(ii) have a breaking strength equivalent to that of the cable to which they
are attached;
(g) side-guys may have a turnbuckle for one side of any sign;
(h) a sign support or anchor must not be connected to or supported by an unbraced
parapet wall, unless a registered professional structural engineer has
115confirmed that the parapet wall is capable of supporting the sign, to the
satisfaction of the City Building Inspector; and
(i) power actuated fasteners and drop-in anchors must not be used for tension
loads.
16.7 Corrosion Protection
Cables, turnbuckles, links, bolts and screws, and all other devices which are part of or used to
support or anchor a sign must be corrosion resistant, galvanized or otherwise protected from
corrosion, to the satisfaction of the City Building Inspector.
16.8 Awning Sign Construction
An awning sign must be:
(a) constructed of canvas, fabric or textile materials that are acceptable to the
City Building Inspector and comply with CAN/ULC-S109;
(b) directly affixed to the awning surface; and
(c) securely fastened to the awning surface by adhesives, rivets, stitching or other
means that, in the opinion of the City Building Inspector, are acceptable to
resist applied wind, seismic, uplift and dead loads.
16.9 Canopy Sign Construction
A canopy sign must be constructed of non-combustible material or approved combustible
material, to the satisfaction of the City Building Inspector.
16.10 Under-Awning and Under-Canopy Sign Construction
An under-awning or under-canopy sign must be:
(a) constructed of non-combustible material or approved combustible material, to
the satisfaction of the City Building Inspector; and
(b) securely fastened to the awning or canopy structure by metal anchors, bolts or
approved expansion screws of sufficient strength and anchorage to support the
loads applied.
16.11 Fascia Sign Construction
A fascia sign:
(a) must be constructed of non-combustible material or approved combustible
plastic; and
(b) may be constructed of wood if:
(i) the sign area is no greater than 9.29 m², and
(ii) those portions of the sign constructed of plywood are no less than 19
mm thick, and
116(iii) those portions of the sign constructed of wood have a nominal thickness
no less than 30 mm.
16.12 Free-Standing Sign Construction
A free-standing sign must:
(a) be constructed of a non-combustible material, except that the face of the sign,
including the backing, may be constructed of approved combustible plastic, if:
(i) the sign is no more than 4.9 m in height, and
(ii) does not encroach over a street;
(b) have a foundation constructed of concrete, except that:
(i) the foundation may be constructed using material other than concrete if
designed by a Registered Professional Engineer,
(ii) if the sign is more than 7.5 m in height, the foundation must be
designed by a Registered Professional Engineer, regardless of the
material used, and
(iii) the design of the foundation must be to the satisfaction of the City
Building Inspector.
16.13 Projecting Sign Construction
A projecting sign must be constructed of non-combustible material, approved combustible
plastic or other combustible materials in accordance with section 16.5 of this by-law.
16.14 Signs with Electrical Components
A sign that requires an electrical connection or is powered by a renewable energy source
must:
(a) be approved, constructed and installed in accordance with the Electrical By-
law;
(b) be labelled with:
(i) the name of the manufacturer,
(ii) the date of manufacture,
(iii) a certification mark or a special inspection label of a certification
agency accredited by the Standards Council of Canada or an approved
label issued by the BC Safety Authority,
(iv) the gross weight of the sign, other than a free-standing sign, and
(v) the rated operating amperage and voltage;
(c) have a label in accordance with section (b), that:
117(i) has letters not less than 10 mm high,
(ii) is attached to the exterior of the sign, and
(iii) is readable from ground level, or accessible without the use of a ladder
or other device; and
(d) have weatherproof light fixtures, switches and wiring, unless enclosed in a
permanent rigid sealed structure which ensures the electrical installation
remains dry.
PART 17
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
17.1 Offences
Every person who:
(a) violates any provision of this by-law;
(b) suffers, permits or allows any act to be done in contravention of this
by-law;
(c) neglects to do anything required to be done by this by-law; or
(d) fails to comply with an order or notice given under this by-law;
is guilty of an offence and liable to the penalties listed herein.
17.2 Fines and Penalties
Every person who commits an offence against this by-law is liable to a fine of no less than
$250 and no more than $10,000 for each offence.
17.3 Continuing Offence
Every person who commits an offence of a continuing nature against this by-law is liable to a
fine of no less than $250 and no more than $10,000 for each day such offences is continued.
17.4 Failure to Comply with an Order
Despite the minimum fines referred to in this Part, every person who fails to comply with an
order issued pursuant to this by-law is liable to a fine of no less than $500 and no more than
$10,000 for each offence.
17.5 Display of Sign without Permit
Despite the minimum fines referred to in this Part, every person who displays, or permits
suffers or allows the display of a sign without a valid sign permit, is liable to a fine of no less
than $500 and no more than $10,000 for each offence.
118SCHEDULE A
CD-1 Zoning Districts regulated by Part 9
The comprehensive development districts listed below are subject to the regulations set out
in Part 9 of the Sign By-law. Any comprehensive development district not listed below or in
Schedule B is assigned to the Residential Sign District.
Assigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
650 West 41st Avenue (Oakridge) CD-1(1) 3568 C-2
South side of Hastings between Windermere and CD-1(3B) 3656 C-1
Cassiar Streets
3395 East Hastings Street (Exhibition Park) CD-1(3B) 3656 C-2
576 West 41st Avenue CD-1(14) 3963 C-1
3110 East 54th Avenue CD-1(16) 3980 C-2
725-747 South East Marine Drive CD-1(21) 4035 C-2
3215 MacDonald Street CD-1(25) 4076 C-1
2105 West 32nd Avenue CD-1(26) 4078 C-1
4615-4675 Arbutus Street
2105 East 12th Avenue CD-1(29) 4104 C-2
716 Granville Street CD-1(30) 4123 C-1
601-699 West 57th Avenue (Langara Gardens) CD-1(47) 4358 FM-l
3282-3298 East 1st Avenue CD-1(50) 4379 C-1
750-752 West 70th Avenue CD-1(51) 4384 C-2
100 West 49th Avenue (Langara College) CD-1(55) 4412 C-2
900-990 West King Edward Avenue CD-1(58) 4446 C-2
Vancouver General Hospital Campus CD-1(59) 4472 C-2
500 West 12th Avenue CD-1(62) 4497 C-2
688 South West Marine Drive CD-1(66) 4539 C-2
988 West 26th Avenue and 4255 Laurel Street CD-1(67) 8437 C-2Assigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
S/E Corner of 54th Avenue and Kerr Street CD-1(68) 4550 C-2
400 Great Northern Way CD-1(70) 4559 C-1
S/W of Arbutus Street and King Edward Avenue CD-1(78) 4634 C-2
(Arbutus Village)
2940-2970 East 22nd Avenue CD-1(90) 5343/7943 C-1
605-695 South East Marine Drive CD-1(99) 4238 and C-1
4860
2280 Kingsway and 2277-2299 East 30th Avenue CD-1(100) 4861 C-2
282-444 West 49th Avenue CD-1(103) 4900 FM-1
373-375 Kingsway CD-1(111) 4930 C-2
800 Cassiar and 3550 Adanac Streets CD-1(113) 4940 FM-1
Champlain Heights (Areas E and F) CD-1(117) 4986 FM-1
3555 East 5th Avenue (Site B) CD-1(125) 5060 M-1
4500 Oak Street (B.C. Children’s Hospital and CD-1(126) 5091 C-2
B.C. Women’s Hospital and health Centre)
2301-2307 Kingsway CD-1(128) 5145 C-2
3350-3380 Maquinna Drive and 7725-7835 CD-1(136) 5270 FM-1
Champlain Crescent
835-865 West 10th Avenue CD-1(137) 5373 C-2
3600 Marine Way CD-1(140) 5383 C-1
1155 East Broadway CD-1(141) 9197 C-2
176 East 18th Avenue CD-1(148) 5510 C-1
650 West Georgia Street CD-1(155) 5683 DD
S/S of Marine Drive, Elliott, Kent Avenue North CD-1(156) 3865/5695 M-1
and Duff Street
2668-2696 West Broadway CD-1(158) 5705 C-2
3496-3578 Kingsway CD-1(162) 5762 C-2
1095 West Pender and Hastings Streets CD-1(163) 5773 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
333 Seymour and 601 West Hastings Streets CD-1(164) 5810 DD
3033 Cambie Street CD-1(165) 5818 C-2C
1020 Harwood and 1003 Pacific Streets CD-1(169) 5852 DD
2675 Oak Street CD-1(170) 5863 FM-1
3003 Kingsway and 5250 Rupert Street CD-1(171) 5890 C-2
3488 Kingsway (Site A) CD-1(172) 5927 C-2
1060-1080 Alberni Street CD-1(177) 5997 DD
322-424 Drake Street CD-1(182) 6057 DD
2800 East 1st Avenue CD-1(183) 6064 C-2
777 West Broadway CD-1(186) 6070 C-2
555 West 12th Avenue, 2628-2668 Ash and CD-1(187) 6072 C-2C
2615-2685 Cambie Streets
2908 West 33rd Avenue CD-1(190) 6155 C-1
3551 Kingsway CD-1(194) 6180 C-2
1000-1010 Beach Avenue CD-1(195) 6221 DD
1700-1781 West 75th Avenue CD-1(198) 6254 M-1
1308-1338 Alberni and 738 Broughton Streets CD-1(200) 6263 DD
3352-3386 Vanness Avenue CD-1(201) 6272 FM-1
800 Robson Street (Robson Square) CD-1(204) 6304 DD
2889 East Hastings Street CD-1(205) 6305 C-2
8118-8298 Granville Street CD-1(206) 6307 C-2
4080-4190 Nanaimo Street and 2411-2487 East CD-1(210) 6313/6365 FM-1
26th Avenue
3206-3254 Vanness Avenue, 3235-3295 Clive CD-1(219) 6322 C-1
Avenue and 4914-4928 Spencer Street
891-901 Burrard Street CD-1(228) 6420 DD
900 Burrard and 935-953 Hornby Streets CD-1(229) 6421 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
3185 Grandview Hwy. CD-1(230) 6423 C-2
2782-2796 Grandview Hwy. CD-1(231) 6425 C-2
2060 West 10th Avenue CD-1(234) 6429 C-1
131 West Pender Street CD-1(235) 6448 C-1
1275 Burrard Street CD-1(239) 6486 DD
757 West Hastings Street CD-1(243) 6577 DD
2700-3000 South East Marine Drive (Block 67 to CD-1(247) 6533 C-1
Kerr)
1523 Davie Street CD-1(248) 6564 C-5
3057-3157 and 3355-3377 Grandview Hwy., CD-1(249) 6654 M-2
3445-3541 Cornett Road and 2525 Skeena Street
N/S 1700 East Broadway CD-1(250) 6663&8187 C-2
888 Beach Avenue CD-1(251) 6676 DD
901 Beach Avenue CD-1(252) 6688 DD
Burrard Waterfront - East of Victoria Drive CD-1(258) 6718 M-2
1301 West Pender Street CD-1(259) 6730 DD
101 Terminal Avenue CD-1(264) 6744 FC-1
International Village B - being the area zoned CD-1(265) 6747 DD
CD-1 (265) not included in Part 14
1100 to 1300 Blocks Pacific Boulevard CD-1(266) 6757 C-1
North Fraser Landing CD-1(268) 6760 C-1
1152 Mainland Street CD-1(272) 6819 HA-3
833 Helmcken Street CD-1(273) 6817 DD
1041 South West Marine Drive CD-1(276) 6876 C-2
901 West Hastings Street CD-1(278) 6885 DD
550 Burrard Street CD-1(279) 6884 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
1255 Burrard Street CD-1(287) 7006 DD
Library Square CD-1(289) 7088 DD
5305-5329 Victoria Drive CD-1(294) 7101 C-2
1200 and 1300 Blocks, Pacific Boulevard CD-1(297) 7156 C-1
(south side)
800-822 East Broadway CD-1(301) 7159 C-2C
5698 Aberdeen Street (3545 Kingsway) CD-1(302) 7163 C-2
737 West 16th Avenue CD-1(303) 7166 C-2
1899 West 1st Avenue CD-1(305) 7174 C-2B
2034 West 11th Avenue CD-1(306) 7175 C-1
300 Cardero Street CD-1(312) 7200 DD
3400-3660 Vanness, Foster and Euclid Avenues CD-1(314) 7204 C-2C
1650 West 1st Avenue CD-1(315) 7208 IC-1
526-528 West Hastings Street CD-1(316) 7209 DD
1300 West Georgia Street CD-1(318) 7223 DD
1200 Alberni CD-1(319) 7224 DD
1606-1799 West Georgia and 549 Cardero CD-1(321) 7232 DD
Streets
970 Burrard Street CD-1(322) 7235 DD
750 Burrard Street CD-1(323) 7246 DD
800-1100 Pacific Boulevard CD-1(324) 7248 DD
2135 West 12th Avenue CD-1(326) 7317 C-2C
4066 Macdonald Street and 2785 Alamein Street CD-1(328) 7337 C-1
300 Robson Street CD-1(329) 7340 DD
380-390 West 8th Avenue CD-1(330) 7371 I-1
1054-1098 Robson Street CD-1(331) 7381 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
2124-30 Burrard Street and 1798 West 5th CD-1(332) 7389 C-3A
Avenue
900 Terminal Avenue CD-1(334) 7419 M-2
1575-77 West Georgia Street CD-1(336) 7431 DD
475-87 Alexander Street CD-1(337) 7434 M-2
272 East 4th Avenue CD-1(338) 7435 IC-3
1600-1636 West 1st Avenue CD-1(339) 7476 IC-1
2750 Slocan Street CD-1(340) 7459 M-1
1100-1114 Burnaby Street CD-1(342) 7516 FM-1
350 Robson Street CD-1(346) 7551 DD
2897 West 41st Avenue CD-1(347) 7552 C-1
750 Pacific Boulevard CD-1(349) 7592 DD
3211-3245 Oak Street CD-1(350) 7601 C-1
5104-5156 Joyce Street CD-1(352) 7639 C-2C
303 Railway Avenue CD-1(354) 7645 M-2
2725 Arbutus Street CD-1(357) 7654 C-2C
705 West Broadway CD-1(358) 7648 C-3A
245-295 Alexander Street CD-1(361) 7652 M-2
201 Burrard Street CD-1(363) 7679 DD
501 Bute Street CD-1(364) 7681 DD
301 Jervis Street CD-1(365) 7677 DD
500 Pacific Street CD-1(366) 7675 DD
901-967 and 940-990 Seymour Street CD-1(369) 7673 DD
2750 Granville Street CD-1(370) 7684 C-3A
5299 Arbutus Street CD-1(371) 7705 C-1
5605 Victoria Drive CD-1(373) 7725 C-2Assigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
1762 Davie Street CD-1(374) 7827 C-5
2197 West 11th Avenue and 2625-2627 Arbutus CD-1(380) 7879 C-2C
Street
6691-6699 Victoria Drive CD-1(382) 7927 C-2
1200 Hamilton Street CD-1(384) 7948 HA-3
1001 Hornby Street, 1050 Burrard Street and CD-1(386) 7971 DD
1088 Burrard Street
1742-1752 West 2nd Avenue CD-1(389) 7996 IC-1
600 Nicola Street CD-1(400) 8130 DD
500-800 Canada Place Way CD-1(401) 8122 CWD
555 Great Northern Way CD-1(402) 8131 I-3
395 West 5th Avenue CD-1(405) 8326 I-1
3003 Grandview Hwy CD-1(406) 8361 M-2
675 West 10th Avenue CD-1(408) 8437 C-2
1128 West Hastings Street CD-1(409) 8439 DD
1220 East Pender Street CD-1(411) 8459 I-2
801 West Georgia Street CD-1(413) 8536 DD
600 Granville Street/602 Dunsmuir Street CD-1(414) 8546 DD
651 Expo Boulevard CD-1(415) 8587 DD
2876 Rupert Street CD-1(417) 8599 M-2
488 Robson Street CD-1(418) 8742 DD
1201 West Hastings Street CD-1(419) 8820 DD
1402-1436 Kingsway and 4050 Knight Street CD-1(420) 8880 C-2
900 Pacific Boulevard CD-1(422) 8896 DD
1120 West Georgia Street CD-1(426) 8943 DD
1001-1015 Denman Street CD-1(427) 8978 C-5
33 West Pender Street CD-1(428) 8995 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
811-821 Cambie Street CD-1(431) 9083 DD
1380 Hornby Street CD-1(435) 9116 DD
3585 Gravely Street CD-1(437) 9154 1-2
2820 Bentall Street CD-1(438) 9161 M-2
1752-1760 West 3rd Avenue CD-1(439) 9165 IC-1
1750 Davie Street CD-1(440) 9167 C-5
1211 Melville Street CD-1(441) 9170 DD
898 Seymour Street and 887-897 Richards Street CD-1(442) 9173 DD
826-848 West Hastings Street CD-1(443) 9184 DD
955 Burrard Street CD-1(444) 9190 DD
969 Burrard Street and 1017-1045 Nelson Street CD-1(445) 9204 DD
1133 West Georgia Street CD-1(446) 9195 DD
Hillcrest Park CD-1(449) 9230 C-1
Nat Bailey Stadium Park
101 and 149 West Hastings Street CD-1(450) 9275 DD
150 West Cordova Street
3585 Grandview Highway CD-1(452) 9410 I-2
2999 Grandview Highway CD-1(453) 9420 I-2
51, 85, 199 and 215 West 1st Avenue CD-1(454) 9454 DD
1599 and 1651 Ontario Street
1598 and 1650 Columbia Street
701 Granville Street CD-1(455) 9460 DD
701 West Georgia Street
777 Dunsmuir Street
700 West Pender Street
360 West 1st Avenue CD-1(456) 9463 DD
1655-1675 West 3rd Avenue CD-1(458) 9543 IC-1
388 West 1st Avenue CD-1(460) 9573 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
102-160 West 1st Avenue CD-1(462) 9594 DD
(now known as 140 West 1st Avenue)
2-88 West 1st Avenue CD-1(464) 9600 DD
2-26 East 1st Avenue
27-99 West 2nd Avenue
1409-1477 West Pender Street CD-1(468) 9665 DD
2900 East Broadway CD-1(470) 9693 I-3
311 West 2nd Avenue CD-1(471) 9707 DD
26 Southwest Marine Drive CD-1(475) 9763 C-1
188 East 1st Avenue CD-1(478) 9850 DD
2960-2990 Nanaimo Street CD-1(479) 9971 C-1
236 - 298 West 1st Avenue CD-1(483) 10034 DD
2967 Grandview Highway CD-1(486) 10100 I-2
2330 - 2372 Kingsway CD-1(487) 10095 C-2
2319 East 30th Avenue
887 Great Northern Way CD-1(488) 10099 I-3
1201 - 1215 Bidwell Street CD-1(489) 10101 C-5
1702 - 1726 Davie Street
745 Thurlow Street CD-1(493) 10131 DD
538 - 560 West Broadway CD-1(494) 10132 C-3A
3333 Main Street CD-1(495) 10134 C-2
2250 Commercial Drive CD-1(496) 10260 C-2C
2665 Renfrew Street CD-1(497) 10190 I-2
215 West 2nd Avenue CD-1(501) 10241 DD
1304 Hornby Street CD-1(502) 10248 DD
1304 Howe Street CD-1(503) 10249 DD
1553 - 1577 Main Street CD-1(504) 10264 DD
15 and 97 East 2nd Avenue CD-1(506) 10307 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
1569 West 6th Avenue CD-1(508) 10308 C-3A
1025 Robson Street CD-1(509) 10310 DD
1134 Burrard Street CD-1(510) 10327 DD
138 East 7th Avenue CD-1(511) 10328 I-1
1850 Victoria Diversion CD-1(512) 10331 MC-1
(3522 Porter Street)
2402 East Broadway CD-1(513) 10382 C-1
639 Commercial Drive CD-1(514) 10344 C-2
999 Seymour Street CD-1(515) 10349 DD
1650 Quebec Street CD-1(516) 10348 DD
8495 Granville Street CD-1(517) 10391 C-2
428 Terminal Avenue CD-1(518) 10392 I-3
777 Pacific Boulevard CD-1(519) 10404 DD
10 Terry Fox Way CD-1(520) 10403 DD
(Concord Area 5b East)
108 East 1st Avenue CD-1(522) 10425 DD
8440 Cambie Street CD-1(523) 10432 C-3A
1880 Renfrew Street CD-1(524) 10431 C-2C1
(Renfrew Care Centre)
555 Robson Street CD-1(525) 10433 DD
775 Richards Street
520 West Georgia Street (Telus Block)
606 Powell Street CD-1(526) 10457 DEOD
6311 Cambie Street CD-1(527) 10458 C-2
(6309 - 6337 Cambie Street)
2667 - 2703 Kingsway CD-1(529) 10472 C-2
(2699 Kingsway)
2730 East 41st Avenue CD-1(530) 10477 C-2
(5711 Rhodes Street)
105 - 167 West 2nd Avenue CD-1(531) 10482 DDAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
1305 - 1335 Burrard Street and CD-1(532) 10491 DD
1009 Harwood Street
111 Princess Avenue CD-1(533) 10500 DEOD
1695 Main Street CD-1(534) 10543 DD
8018 - 8150 Cambie Street CD-1(535) 10547 C-1
675 - 691 East Broadway CD-1(536) 10548 C–2C
1030 Denman Street CD-1(537) 10566 C-5
1077 Great Northern Way CD-1(544) 10653 I-3
5515 - 5665 Boundary Road, CD-1(545) 10676 C-1
5448 - 5666 Ormidale Street and
3690 Vanness Avenue
960 - 982 Howe Street CD-1(546) 10688 DD
6361 - 6385 Cambie Street CD-1(548) 10760 C-2
1388 Continental Street CD-1(549) 10756 DD
1265 - 1281 Howe Street CD-1(551) 10754 DD
803 - 821 Drake Street
475 Howe Street and CD-1(555) 10819 DD
819 West Pender Street
2220 Kingsway CD-1(556) 10827 C-2
4320 Slocan Street CD-1(557) 10829 C-1
3002-3036 West Broadway CD-1(558) 10841 C-2C
303 East 8th Avenue CD-1(560) 10858 C-1
955 East Hastings Street CD-1(561) 10872 DEOD
1396 Richards Street CD-1(563) 10874 DD
East Fraser Lands - Park Precinct CD-1(565) 10942 C-2
East Fraser Lands - Town Square Precinct CD-1(566) 10941 C-2
East Fraser Lands - Waterfront Precinct CD-1(567) 10943 C-2
2610 Victoria Drive CD-1(568) 10933 C-2Assigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
1107 Seymour Street CD-1(570) 10996 DD
1300-1320 Richards Street CD-1(571) 10995 DD
1526-1560 Kingsway CD-1(572) 10998 C-2
2290 Main Street CD-1(575) 11017 C-3A
8175 Cambie Street, CD-1(577) 11020 C-1
519 Southwest Marine Drive and
8180-8192 Lord Street
1410 Granville Street CD-1(579) 11010 DD
1412-1480 Howe Street, CD-1(580) 11009 DD
1429 Granville Street and
710 Pacific Street
201 West 2nd Avenue CD-1(582) 11069 DD
7249 Cypress Street CD-1(584) 11074 C-1
1262-1290 Burrard Street CD-1(587) 11106 DD
1229-1281 Hornby Street CD-1(588) 11107 DD
4099 Cambie Street CD-1(590) 11110 C-2
228 - 246 East Broadway and CD-1(591) 11124 C-3A
180 Kingsway
998 Expo Boulevard CD-1(593) 11125 DD
(Concord Area 5B West)
960-968 Kingsway and CD-1(596) 11159 C-2
955 East 19th Avenue
508 Helmcken Street CD-1(598) 11192 DD
2806 Cambie Street CD-1(602) 11199 C-2C
2850 Cambie Street
454 West 12th Avenue and
465 West 13th Avenue
1155 Thurlow Street CD-1(607) 11243 C-1
33-49 East Hastings Street CD-1(608) 11244 DEOD
3503-3523 East Hastings Street and CD-1(610) 11292 C-2C1
394-398 Skeena StreetAssigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning
Location Number Number District
275 Kingsway (333 East 11th Avenue) CD-1(614) 11294 C-3A
3030 East Broadway CD-1(616) 11311 I-2
984 West Broadway CD-1(618) 11317 C-3A
1412-1424 East 41st Avenue CD-1(620) 11374 C-1SCHEDULE B
CD-1 Zoning Districts regulated by Part 10, 12, 13 or 14
The comprehensive development districts listed below are subject to the Sign District
regulations set out in the applicable Part of this by-law listed opposite the applicable CD-1
by-law.
Assigned
CD-1 By-law Zoning Sign
Location Number Number District District
International Village A, portion CD-1(265) 6747 - Part 14
bounded by Pender, Taylor,
Keefer and Abbot Streets
800 Griffiths Way CD-1(311) 7201 - Part 13
34 West Pender Street CD-1(348) 7556 HA-1 Part 10
598 Taylor Street CD-1(379) 7853 HA-1 Part 10
1300-1336 Granville Street CD-1(482) 10030 DD Part 12
1142 Granville Street CD-1(491) 10127 DD Part 12
611 Main Street CD-1(547) 10737 HA-1A Part 10
633 Main Street CD-1(553) 10787 HA-1A Part 10