2221-2223 Main Street
BY-LAW NO. 12181
A By-law to enact a Housing Agreement
for 2221-2223 Main Street
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
1. Council authorizes the City to enter into a Housing Agreement with the owner of certain lands
described as:
NO PIDs Lot 1 Block 37 District Lot 200A Group 1 New
Westminster District Plan EPP82953
in substantially the form and substance of the Housing Agreement attached to this By-law, and also
authorizes the Director of Legal Services to execute the agreement on behalf of the City, and to
deliver it to the owner on such terms and conditions as the Director of Legal Services deems fit.
2. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 24th day of July, 2018
Signed “Gregor Robertson”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City ClerkFORM_C_V24 (Charge)
LAND TITLE ACT
FORM C (Section 233) CHARGE
GENERAL INSTRUMENT- PART 1 Province of British Columbia PAGE 1 OF 15 PAGES
Your electronic signature is a representation that you are a subscriber as defined by the
Land Title Act, RSBC 1996 c.250, and that you have applied your electronic signature
in accordance with Section 168.3, and a true copy, or a copy of that true copy, is in
your possession.
1. APPLICATION: (Name, address, phone number of applicant, applicant's solicitor or agent)
Kim Giuricich, Agent
City of Vancouver LTO Client number: 10647
453 West 12th Avenue Phone number: 604.873.7505
Matter number: 17-03824
Vancouver BC V5Y 1V4 2221 MAIN STREET
0
DeductLTSAFees? Yes
2. PARCEL IDENTIFIER AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF LAND:
[PID] [LEGAL DESCRIPTION]
NO PID NMBR LOT 1 BLOCK 37 DISTRICT LOT 200A GROUP 1 NEW WESTMINSTER
DISTRICT PLAN EPP82953
STC? YES
Related Plan Number: EPP82953
3. NATURE OF INTEREST CHARGE NO. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Covenant Entire instrument
4. TERMS: Part 2 of this instrument consists of(select one only)
(a) 0Filed Standard Charge Terms D.F. No. (b) [{]Express Charge Terms Annexed as Part 2
A selection of (a) includes any additional or modified terms referred to in Item 7 or in a schedule annexed to this instrument.
5. TRANSFEROR(S):
CITY OF VANCOUVER
6. TRANSFEREE(S): (including postal address(es) and postal code(s))
CITY OF VANCOUVER
453 WEST 12TH AVENUE
VANCOUVER BRITISH COLUMBIA
V5Y 1V4 CANADA
7. ADDITIONAL OR MODIFIED TERMS:
N/A
8. This instrument creates, assigns, modifies, enlarges, discharges or governs the priority ofthe interest(s) described in Item 3 and
Tra.nsferor(s) and every other signatory agree to be bound by this instrument, and acknowledge(s) receipt of a true copy ofthe filed standard
Transferor(s) Signature(s)
CITY OF VANCOUVER, by its
authorized signatory:
l/,/Pdtd
BRAD WOODS
Urcu)~p
453 WEST '12Tf:'1.t\VENUE d,
VANCOUVER 8C VoY W4 Pn Name:
LAWYj;;R
HEIDI Gf?ANGER/
OFFICER CERTIFICATION:
Your signature constitutes a representation that you are a solicitor, notary public or other person authorized by the Evidence Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c.124, to
take affidavits for use in British Columbia and certifies the matters set out in Part 5 ofthe Land Title Act as they pertain to the execution of this
instrument.FORM_D1_V24
LAND TITLE ACT
FORMD
EXECUTIONS CONTINUED PAGE 2 of 15 PAGES
Officer Signature(s) Execution Date Transferor I Borrower I Party Signature(s)
y M D
CITY OF VANCOUVER, by its
18 authorized signatory:
Print Name:
OFFICER CERTIFICATION:
Your signature constitutes a representation that you are a solicitor, notary public or other person authorized by the Evidence Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c.l24,
to take affidavits for use in British Columbia and certifies the matters set out in Part 5 of the Land Title Act as they pertain to the execution of this
instrument.3
TERMS OF INSTRUMENT- PART 2
HOUSING AGREEMENT AND BUILDING USE COVENANT
(Social Housing)
2221-2223 MAIN STREET
WHEREAS:
A. It is understood and agreed that this instrument and Agreement shall be read as
follows:
(a) the Transferor, CITY OF VANCOUVER, is called the "Owner", as more particularly
defined in Section 1.1, in its capacity as the registered and beneficial owner of
the Lands; and
(b) the Transferee, CITY OF VANCOUVER, is called the "City" or "City of
Vancouver" when referring to the corporate entity and "Vancouver" when
referring to geographical location;
B. The Owner is the registered and beneficial owner of the Development Lands;
C. The Owner made an application to rezone the Development Lands from IC-2
(Industrial) District to CD-1 (Comprehensive Development) District to permit a stepped nine
storey mixed-use building with 145 social housing units and commercial uses at grade. After a
public hearing to consider the rezoning application, the rezoning application was approved by
City Council in principle, subject to, inter aUa, fulfilment of the condition that, prior to
enactment of the rezoning by-law (the "Rezoning By-law"}, the Owner satisfy the following
condition:
"14. Make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Director of Legal Services and
the General Manager of Community Services to enter into a Section 219
Covenant, Housing Agreement pursuant to section 565.2 of the Vancouver
Charter, or other security, to secure:
(j) a minimum of 44 units wUL be occupied by households with incomes
below the housing income Umits as set out in the current "Housing
Income Umits (HILS)" table pubUshed by the British Columbia Housing
Management Commission or equivalent pubUcation at a rent which is no
more than 30 per cent of household income;
(H) Average rents across all units wUL not exceed 80 per cent of the
maximum rents set out in sections 3.1A and 3.1B of the Vancouver
Development Cost Levy By-Law;
(Hi) the social housing units for the Ufe of the building for use as "social
housing" as defined in the Vancouver Zoning and Development By-law
and as described in this report;
(iv) a no separate sales covenant;
(00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street4
(v) a no straUficaUon covenant; and
(vi) a requirement that none of the units will be rented for less than one
month at a time.
Note to Applicant: TMs condition will be secured by a Housing Agreement to
be entered into by the City by by-law enacted pursuant to Section 565.2 of the
Vancouver Charter"
(the "Social Housing Condition"); and
D. The Owner and the City are now entering into this Agreement to satisfy the Social
Housing Condition.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES that for good and valuable consideration
(the receipt and sufficiency of which the parties hereby acknowledge and agree to) the
Owner and the City, pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter and to Section 219 of
the Land Title Act, agree as follows in respect of the use of the Lands and the New Building:
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
1.1 Definitions. In this Agreement the following terms have the definitions now given:
(a) "Agreement" means this housing agreement and building use covenant,
including the foregoing Recitals;
(b) "City" and "City of Vancouver" are defined in Recital A(ii);
(c) "City Manager" means the chief administrator from time to time of the City
and his/her successors in function and their respective nominees;
(d) "City Personnel" means any and all of the elected and appointed officials, and
officers, employees, agents, nominees, delegates, permittees, contractors,
subcontractors and volunteers of the City;
(e) "Commencement Date" means the date as of which this Agreement has been
submitted to the Land Title Office;
(f) "DCL By-law" means Development Cost Levy By-law No. 9755 and all
amendments thereto and re-enactments thereof;
(g) "Development" means the development on the Lands described in Recital C as
contemplated by the Rezoning;
(h) "Development Lands" means, collectively, the Lands and Lot 2;
(i) "Development Permit" means a development permit issued by the City
authorizing development on the Lands or any portion of the Lands as
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street5
contemplated by the Rezoning at any time following the date this Agreement is
fully executed by the parties;
(j) "Director of Legal Services" means the chief administrator from time to time
of the Legal Services Department of the City and her/his successors in function
and their respective nominees;
(k) "General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services" means the chief
administrator from time to time of the Arts, Culture and Community Services
Department of the City and his/her successors in function and their respective
nominees;
(l) "Housing Income Limits" or "HILs" means the income limit for subsidized
housing (for each category of dwelling unit), in Vancouver, determined annually
by the British Columbia Housing Management Commission or its successors in
function, which is derived from the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation's
Annual Rental Market Survey;
(m) "Land Title Act" means the Land Title Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 250;
(n) "Lands" means the lands described in Item 2 in the Form C attached hereto;
provided, however, that if the Lands are at any time subdivided by air space
parcel subdivision, and this Agreement is thereafter discharged from one or
more of the resulting legal parcels, then "Lands" will thereafter mean only the
part of the Lands within the legal parcel(s) against which it remains registered;
(o) "Losses" means any and all damages, losses, fines, penalties, costs (including
legal costs on a solicitor and own client basis), actions, causes of action,
claims, demands, liabilities, indirect or consequential damages (including loss
of profit and loss of use and damages arising out of delays) and expenses of
every nature or kind whatsoever;
(p) "Lot 2" means the lands legally described as:
Lot 2 Block 37 District Lot 200A Group 1 New Westminster District Plan
EPP82953;
(q) "New Building" means each new building or structure to be built on the Lands
as contemplated by the Development Permit, and includes any portion of any
such building or structure, but does not include temporary buildings or
structures on the Lands during the period of, and required for the purposes of,
any construction contemplated by the Development Permit;
(r) "Occupancy Permit" means a permit issued by the City authorizing the use and
occupation of any New Building, development or partial development on the
Lands;
(s) "Owner" means, the Transferor, the City of Vancouver, and all of their
respective assigns and successors;
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street6
(t) "Rental Housing" means a dwelling unit which is not occupied by the
registered or beneficial owner of the same, but which is made available by
such owner to the general public (subject to Article 2), at arms length, for use
as rental accommodation on a month-to-month or longer basis in accordance
with this Agreement, and pursuant to reasonably prudent landlord-tenant
practices for rental residential accommodation and any and all laws applicable
thereto;
(u) "Replacement Social Housing Unit" has the meaning ascribed to that term in
section 2.1 (b) and "Replacement Social Housing Units" means all of such units;
(v) "Residential Tenancy Act" means the Residential Tenancy Act S.B.C. 2002, c.
78;
(w) "Rezoning" means the rezoning of the Lands as described in Recital C;
(x) "Social Housing" has the meaning ascribed to that term in the Vancouver DCL
By-law, namely Rental Housing:
(i) in which at least 30% of the dwelling units are occupied by households
with incomes below Housing Income Limits, as set out in the current
"Housing Income Limits" table published by the British Columbia
Housing Management Commission, or equivalent publication;
(ii) which is owned by a non-profit corporation, by a non-profit co-operative
association, or by or on behalf of the City, the Province of British
Columbia or Canada; and
(iii) in respect of which the registered owner or ground lessee of the
freehold or leasehold title to the land on which the housing is situate
has granted to the City a Section 219 covenant, housing agreement, or
other security for the housing commitments required by the City,
registered against the freehold or leasehold title, with such priority of
registration as the City may require;
(y) "Social Housing Condition" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Recital C;
(z) "Social Housing Units" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section
2.1 (b), and "Social Housing Unit" means any one of such Social Housing Units;
(aa) "Term" means the term of this Agreement, which will commence on the
Commencement Date and will end on the later of:
(i) the date as of which the New Building is demolished or substantially
destroyed; or
(ii) 60 years from the date when the final Occupancy Permit is issued for
the New Building; and
(bb) "Vancouver Charter" means the Vancouver Charter S.B.C. 1953, c. 55.
(00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
ZZZ1-ZZZ3 Main Street7
1.2 Interpretation. In this Agreement:
(a) Party. Any reference to a party herein will be deemed to include the heirs,
executors, administrators, successors, assigns, employees, servants, agents,
officers, contractors, licensees and invitees of such parties wherever the
context so permits or requires.
(b) Singular; Gender. Wherever the singular or masculine or neuter is used in this
Agreement, the same will be construed to mean the plural or the feminine or
body corporate or politic, and vice versa, as the context or the parties so
require.
(c) Captions and Headings. The captions and headings appearing in this Agreement
have been inserted as a matter of convenience and for reference only and in no
way define, limit or enlarge the scope or meaning of this Agreement or any of
the provisions hereof.
(d) References. References to the or this "Agreement" and the words "hereof"
"herein" and similar words refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any
section or subsection or other subdivision hereof and any reference in this
Agreement to a designated Recital, Section, subsection or other subdivision is a
reference to the designated Recital, Section, subsection or subdivision hereof.
(e) Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the Province of British Columbia and the laws of
Canada applicable in British Columbia. Any reference to a statute is to the
statute and its regulations in force on the date the Form C General Instrument
- Part 1 is fully executed and to subsequent amendments to or replacements of
the statute or regulations.
(f) Legislation. Any reference to a statute includes and is a reference to such
statute and to the regulations made pursuant thereto, with all amendments
made thereto and as in force from time to time, and to any statute and
regulations that may be passed which have the effect of supplementing or
superseding such statutes and regulations.
(g) Time. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement and each part of it. If
any party expressly or impliedly waives this requirement, that party may
reinstate it by delivering notice to the other party(ies). If a time is specified in
this Agreement for observing or performing any obligation, such time shall be
local Vancouver, British Columbia time.
ARTICLE 2
RESTRICTIONS ON USE AND SUBDIVISION
2.1 The Owner covenants and agrees that:
(a) throughout the Term, the Lands and the New Building will not be used in any
way that is inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement;
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street8
(b) it will design, construct, equip and finish within the New Building not less than
145 dwelling units for use only as Social Housing (the "Social Housing Units"),
in accordance with the Development Permit, any building permit issued
pursuant thereto and the requirements of this Agreement, and if the New
Building is damaged, destroyed or demolished before the 60 year anniversary of
the issuance of the final Occupancy Permit, then it will promptly take all steps
reasonably necessary to enable it to repair the New Building or build a
replacement building or buildings on the Lands, which repaired New Building or
replacement building(s) will contain not less than the same number and type of
replacement Social Housing Units as the New Building formerly contained (each
such replacement Social Housing Unit hereinafter referred to as a
"Replacement Social Housing Unit") and will be subject, for the duration of
the Term, to the same use restrictions as the Social Housing Units and the New
Building are pursuant to this Agreement;
(c) throughout the Term the Social Housing Units (or Replacement Social Housing
Units, as applicable) will be used only in a manner that ensures its continued
compliance with the definition of Social Housing;
(d) throughout the Term:
(i) not less than 44 of the Social Housing Units (or Replacement Social
Housing Units, as applicable) will be:
A. occupied by households with incomes below the then current
applicable HILs; and
B. each rented at a rate no higher than 30% of the aggregate
household income of the members of the household occupying
such Social Housing Unit; and
(ii) average rents across each unit type of Social Housing Units (or
Replacement Social Housing Units, as applicable) will not exceed 80% of
the maximum rents for the respective unit type set out in Sections
3.1A(d) of the DCL-By-law, as may be amended from time to time;
unless otherwise agreed by the City;
(e) throughout the Term, the Social Housing Units (or Replacement Social Housing
Units, as applicable) will only be used for the purpose of providing Social
Housing;
(f) throughout the Term, except by way of a tenancy agreement to which the
Resjdential Tenancy Act applies, it will not suffer, cause or permit, beneficial
or registered title to any Social Housing Unit (or Replacement Social Housing
Unit, as applicable) to be sold or otherwise transferred unless:
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street9
(i) every Social Housing Unit (or Replacement Social Housing Unit, as
applicable) is sold or otherwise transferred together and as a block to
the same legal and beneficial owner; and
(ii) the sale or transfer is to the City or it otherwise obtains the express
written consent of the City;
(g) throughout the Term, it will not suffer, cause or permit the Lands, or any part
thereof, to be subdivided by strata plan or air space plan without the prior
written consent of the City, which consent may be arbitrarily withheld;
(h) throughout the Term, any sale or other transfer of title to a Social Housing Unit
(or Replacement Social Housing Unit, as applicable) in contravention of the
covenant in Section 2.1 (f), and any subdivision of the Lands in contravention of
Section 2.1 (g), will in each case be of no force or effect, and the City will be
entitled to the cancellation of the registration of any offending transfer of title
or plan, as the case may be, at the Owner's expense;
(i) throughout the Term, the Social Housing Units (or Replacement Social Housing
Units, as applicable) will only be rented on a month-to-month or longer basis
and in no case for less than at least 30 consecutive days;
(j) throughout the Term, it will insure, or cause to be insured, the Lands and the
New Building and all parts thereof to the full replacement cost against perils
normally insured against in Vancouver by reasonable and prudent owners of
similar buildings and lands; and
(k) throughout the Term, it will keep and maintain the Lands and the New Building
and all parts thereof in good repair and in a safe, clean, neat and tidy
condition. If the Lands or the New Building or any part thereof is damaged, the
Owner will promptly restore and repair the same whenever and as often as
damage occurs, to at least as good a state and condition as existed before such
damage occurred.
ARTICLE 3
OCCUPANCY RESTRICTION ON THE LANDS
3.1 The Owner covenants and agrees with the City in respect of the use of the Lands and
the New Building, that:
(a) the Owner will not apply for any Occupancy Permit in respect of, and will not
suffer or permit the occupation of, the New Building, and will take no action,
directly or indirectly, to compel the issuance of any Occupancy Permit for the
Building, until such time as the Owner has delivered, to the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services, in form and substance satisfactory to
the General Manager of Arts, Culture and Community Services:
(i) proof of the insurance, consistent with the requirements of Section
2.1 (j), is in force and effect; and
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street10
(ii) a final rent roll confirming the rents to be charged to the first
occupants of the Social Housing Units following issuance of the
Occupancy Permit on either a per unit or a per square foot basis, and
the unit type mix and size, which rents, unit type mix and size will
comply with those applicable to the Social Housing Units; and
(b) the City will be under no obligation to issue any Occupancy Permit for the New
Building or any part thereof, notwithstanding completion of construction of the
New Building until such time as the Owner has complied with Section 3.1 (a).
3.2 Without limiting the general scope of ARTICLE 6, the Owner does hereby waive, remise
and release absolutely any and all claims against the City and City Personnel for any
Losses that may derive from the withholding of an Occupancy Permit for the New
Building until there is compliance with the provisions of this ARTICLE 3.
ARTICLE 4
RECORD KEEPING
4.1 The Owner will keep accurate records pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
Social Housing Units (or Replacement Social Housing Units, as applicable). Such
records will be to the satisfaction of the City. At the request of the City, from time to
time but no more frequently than annually, the Owner will make such records
available for inspection and copying by the City. The City will comply with the
Owner's statutory obligations with respect to privacy of such information.
ARTICLE 5
ENFORCEMENT
5.1 This Agreement may be enforced by mandatory and prohibitory orders of the court. In
any action to enforce this Agreement if the City is entitled to court costs, it shall be
entitled to court costs on a solicitor and own client basis.
ARTICLE 6
RELEASE AND INDEMNITY
6.1 Release and Indemnity. Subject to Section 3.2, the Owner hereby:
(a) releases and discharges the City and all City Personnel from and against all
Losses which may arise or accrue to the Owner and covenants and agrees to
indemnify and save harmless the City and all City Personnel from and against
all Losses which may arise, accrue or be incurred by the City or any City
Personnel or which are made by any person, firm or corporation against the
City or any City Personnel or which the City or any City Personnel may pay,
incur, sustain or be put to:
(i) by reason of the City or City Personnel:
A. reviewing, accepting or approving the design, specifications,
materials and methods for construction of the Owner's Works;
{00920374¥4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street11
B. withholding any permit pursuant to this Agreement; or
C. exercising any of its rights under any Section 219 covenant or
other right granted to the City pursuant to this Agreement; or
(ii) that otherwise arise out of, or would not have been incurred but for this
Agreement;
whether or not such Losses are the result of, or relate in any way to any
negligent acts or omissions on the part of the City or the City Personnel; and
(b) covenants and agrees to indemnify and save harmless the City and City
Personnel, from and against all Losses which may arise or accrue to any person,
firm or corporation against the City or any City Personnel or which the City or
any City Personnel may pay, incur, sustain or be put to, by reason of:
(i) any negligent act or omission or wilful misconduct of the Owner or any
of the Owner's Personnel in connection with the observance and
performance of the obligations of the Owner under this Agreement; or
(ii) any default in the due observance and performance of the obligations
and responsibilities of the Owner under this Agreement.
The indemnities in this ARTICLE 6 will be both personal covenants of the Owner
(subject to Section 8. 1) and integral parts of the Section 219 covenants granted in this
Agreement.
6.2 Conduct of Proceedings.
(a) In the event that a claim is made against the City which, pursuant to the terms
of this Agreement, requires the Owner to indemnify the City or City Personnel,
then the City will give notice of such claim to the Owner and, subject to
Section 6.2(b), the Owner will have the right, upon written notice to the City,
to conduct the proceedings in defence of the claim.
(b) Section 6.2(a) will not apply and the City will have the right to conduct the
defence of any claim described in Section 6.2(a) in the following
circumstances:
(i) where the City Manager determines that the proper administration of
the municipal government requires that decisions with respect to the
claim be made by the City;
(ii) where the City Manager determines that the public interest requires
that the matter be resolved in an open and public way; or
(iii) where, in the opinion of the City Manager, the claim is of a nature
where decisions with respect to settling or defending it would create a
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street12
precedent with respect to other existing or potential claims affecting or
involving the City;
provided however that if the City wishes to settle any claim, the City will not
do so without the prior consent of the Owner, which consent will not be
unreasonably withheld. In conducting any defence or making any settlement,
the City will act in a manner reasonably consistent with the manner in which
the City would act in connection with the defence or settlement of claims,
suits, demands, actions or proceedings which would not be indemnified against
under the provisions of this Section 6.2(b); and
(c) Regardless of whether the claim is being defended under Section 6.2(a) or
Section 6.2(b), the party having conduct of the proceedings will, upon written
request of the other party, provide to the other party all information in its
possession relating to the proceedings which may be properly disclosed at law.
If the party not having conduct of the proceedings so requests in writing in a
timely fashion, the party having conduct of the proceedings will join the other
party as a third party to the proceedings.
6.3 Survival of Release and Indemnities. The release and indemnities in this Article 5 will
remain effective, and survive any modification of, or partial release or release of the
covenants created by this Agreement, and any termination of this Agreement, whether
by fulfilment of the covenants contained in this Agreement or otherwise.
ARTICLE 7
NOTICES
7.1 All notices, demands or requests of any kind which one party may be required or
permitted to give to the other in connection with this Agreement, shall be in writing
and shall be given by registered mail or personal delivery, addressed as follows:
(a) If to the City:
City of Vancouver
453 West 12th Avenue
Vancouver, British Columbia
V5YIV4
Attention: City Clerk, with concurrent copies to the General Manager of
Arts, Culture and Community Services and the Director of Legal
Services; and
(b) in the case of the Owner addressed to it at:
City of Vancouver
453 West 12th Avenue
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Y 1V 4
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street13
Attention: Director of Real Estate, with a concurrent copy to the
Director of Affordable Housing
and any such notice, demand or request will be deemed given:
(c) if made by registered mail, on the earlier of the day receipt is acknowledged
by the addressee or the third day after it was mailed, except when there is a
postal service disruption during such period, in which case delivery will be
deemed to be completed upon actual delivery of the notice, demand or
request; and
(d) if personally delivered, on the date when delivered,
or to such other address in Canada as either party may specify in writing to the other
party in the manner described above, provided that if and when the owner of the Land
or any part thereof should change, in the absence of any such specification, then to the
address as set out in the State of Title Certificate for that particular parcel of land.
ARTICLE 8
MISCELLANEOUS
8.1 Agreement Runs With the Lands. The covenants and agreements set forth herein on
the part of the Owner shall be covenants the burden of which shall run with and shall
bind the Lands and shall attach thereto and run with each and every part into which
the same may be subdivided or consolidated. Upon the sale or transfer of the legal or
beneficial interest in the Lands, the parties agree that the covenants and agreements
herein contained shall only be binding upon the transferring party in respect of a
breach or acts or omissions occurring during its ownership of the Lands, and the
transferring party shall otherwise be released from all covenants and agreements
herein contained following such sale or transfer of the legal or beneficial interest in
the Lands.
8.2 Agreement to be a First Charge. The Owner agrees to cause the registrable interests
in land expressly agreed to be granted pursuant to this Agreement to be registered as
first registered charges against the Lands, save only for any reservations, liens,
charges or encumbrances:
(a) contained in any grant from Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province of
British Columbia respecting the Lands;
(b) registered against any of the titles to the Lands at the instance of the City,
whether in favour of the City or otherwise, as a condition of the Development
Permit; and
(c) which the Director of Legal Services has determined, in her sole discretion,
may rank in priority to the registrable interests in land granted pursuant to this
Agreement.
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street14
8.3 Enforcement. This Agreement may be enforced by mandatory and prohibitory orders
of the court. In any action to enforce this Agreement if the City is entitled to court
costs, it will be entitled to court costs on a solicitor and own client basis.
8.4 Severability. All the obligations and covenants contained in this Agreement are
severable, so that if any one or more of the obligations or covenants are held by or
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or unenforceable; the balance
of the obligations and covenants will remain and be binding.
8.5 Vancouver Charter. Nothing contained or implied herein will derogate from the
obligations of the Owner under any other agreement with the City or, if the City so
elects, prejudice or affect the City's rights, powers, duties or obligations in the
exercise of its functions pursuant to the Vancouver Charter, and the rights, powers,
duties and obligations of the City under all public and private statutes, by-laws, orders
and regulations, which may be, if the City so elects, as fully and effectively exercised
in relation to the Lands as if this Agreement had not been executed and delivered by
the Owner and the City.
8.6 Waiver. The Owner acknowledges and agrees that no failure on the part of the City to
exercise and no delay in exercising any right under this Agreement will operate as a
waiver thereof nor will any single or partial exercise by the City of any right under this
Agreement preclude any other or future exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right. The remedies herein provided will be cumulative and not exclusive of any other
remedies provided by law and all remedies stipulated for the City herein will be
deemed to be in addition to and not, except as herein expressly stated, restrictive of
the remedies of the City at law or in equity.
8. 7 Further Assurances. The Owner will execute such further and other documents and
instruments and do such further and other acts as may be necessary to implement and
carry out the provisions and intent of this Agreement including all acts necessary to
ensure that this Agreement is noted on title to the Lands as a housing agreement
pursuant to Section 565.2 of the Vancouver Charter.
8.8 Perfection of Intention. The Owner shall, after execution hereof, do or cause to be
done at its own cost and expense all things and acts necessary to ensure that this
Agreement is noted on title to the Lands as a housing agreement pursuant to Section
565.2 of the Vancouver Charter and also registered as a charge against title to the
Lands with priority over all other encumbrances except those in favour of the City.
8. 9 Owner's Representations and Warranties. The Owner represents and warrants to and
covenants and agrees with the City that:
(a) it has the full and complete power, authority and capacity to enter into,
execute and deliver this Agreement and to bind all legal and beneficial
interests in the title to the Lands with the interests in land created hereby;
(b) upon execution and delivery of this Agreement and registration thereof, the
interests in land created hereby will encumber all legal and beneficial interests
in the title to the Lands;
{00920374v4} Housing Agreement (Social Housing)
2221-2223 Main Street