131-163 West 49th Avenue
BY-LAW NO. 13626
A By-law to amend
Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575
to rezone an area to CD-1
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
Zoning District Plan Amendment
1. This by-law amends the Zoning District Plan attached as Schedule D to By-law No.
3575, and amends or substitutes the boundaries and districts shown on it, according to the
amendments, substitutions, explanatory legends, notations, and references shown on the plan
attached as Schedule A to this by-law, and incorporates Schedule A into Schedule D of By-law
No. 3575.
Designation of CD-1 District
2. The area shown within the heavy black outline on Schedule A is hereby designated
CD-1 (847).
Uses
3. Subject to Council approval of the form of development, to all conditions, guidelines and
policies adopted by Council, and to the conditions set out in this by-law or in a development
permit, the only uses permitted within CD-1 (847) and the only uses for which the Director of
Planning or Development Permit Board will issue development permits are:
(a) Cultural and Recreational Uses;
(b) Dwelling Uses, limited to Dwelling Units in conjunction with any of the uses listed
in this section;
(c) Institutional Uses;
(d) Office Uses;
(e) Retail Uses;
(f) Service Uses;
(g) Utility and Communication Uses; and
(h) Accessory Uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section.Conditions of Use
4.1 The design and layout of at least 35% of the total number of dwelling units must:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
(b) include two or more bedrooms, of which:
(i) at least 25% of the total dwelling units must be two-bedroom units; and
(ii) at least 10% of the total dwelling units must be three-bedroom units.
4.2 No portion of the first storey of a building to a depth of 10.7 m from the front wall of the
building and extending across its full width may be used for residential purposes except for
entrances to the residential portion.
4.3 All commercial uses and accessory uses must be carried on wholly within a completely
enclosed building except for:
(a) display of flowers, plants, fruits and vegetables in combination with a permitted
use;
(b) farmers’ market;
(c) neighbourhood public house;
(d) public bike share; and
(e) restaurant.
4.4 The Director of Planning may vary this regulation to permit the outdoor display of retail
goods, and the Director of Planning may impose any conditions that the Director of Planning
considers necessary, having regard to the types of merchandise, the area and location of the
display with respect to adjoining sites, the hours of operation and the intent of this by-law.
Floor Area and Density
5.1 Computation of floor area must assume that the site area is 2,868 m2, being the site area
at the time of the application for the rezoning evidenced by this by-law, prior to any dedications.
5.2 The floor space ratio for all uses combined must not exceed 2.5.
5.3 The total floor area for office uses must not be less than 1,000 m2.
5.4 Computation of floor area must include all floors having a minimum ceiling height of
1.2 m, both above and below base surface, measured to the extreme outer limits of the building.
5.5 Computation of floor area must exclude:
(a) balconies and decks and any other appurtenances which, in the opinion of the
Director of Planning, are similar to the foregoing, except that:(i) the total area of these exclusions must not exceed 12% of the floor area
being provided for dwelling uses; and
(ii) the balconies must not be enclosed for the life of the building;
(b) patios and roof decks, if the Director of Planning first approves the design of
sunroofs and walls;
(c) where floors are used for off-street parking and loading, the taking on or
discharging of passengers, bicycle storage, heating and mechanical equipment,
or uses which in the opinion of the Director of Planning are similar to the
foregoing, those floors or portions thereof so used that are at or below base
surface, except that the exclusion for a parking space must not exceed 7.3 m in
length; and
(d) all residential storage area above or below base surface, except that if residential
storage area above base surface exceeds 3.7 m2 for a dwelling unit, there will be
no exclusion for any of the residential storage area above base surface for that
unit.
5.6 Computation of floor area may exclude, at the discretion of the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board, amenity areas accessory to a residential use, to a maximum of 10%
of the total floor area being provided for dwelling uses.
Building Height
6.1 Building height, measured from base surface, must not exceed 17.7 m.
6.2 Despite section 6.1 of this by-law and section 10.18 of the Zoning and Development
By-law, if the Director of Planning permits common indoor rooftop amenity space and
mechanical room and appurtenances, the height of the portion of the building used for
the common amenity space, mechanical room and appurtenances, elevator overrun and
rooftop access structures, must not exceed 21.3 m.
Horizontal Angle of Daylight
7.1 Each habitable room must have at least one window on an exterior wall of a building.
7.2 The location of each such exterior window must allow a plane or planes extending from
the window and formed by an angle of 50 degrees, or two angles with a sum of 70 degrees, to
encounter no obstruction over a distance of 24.0 m.
7.3 Measurement of the plane or planes referred to in section 7.2 must be horizontally from
the centre of the bottom of each window.
7.4 The Director of Planning or Development Permit Board may relax the horizontal angle of
daylight requirement if:
(a) the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board first considers all the
applicable policies and guidelines adopted by Council; and
(b) the minimum distance of unobstructed view is not less than 3.7 m.7.5 An obstruction referred to in section 7.2 means:
(a) any part of the same building excluding permitted projections; or
(b) the largest building permitted under the zoning on any adjoining site.
7.6 A habitable room referred to in section 7.1 does not include:
(a) a bathroom; or
(b) a kitchen whose floor area is the lesser of:
(i) 10% or less of the total floor area of the dwelling unit; or
(ii) 9.3 m2.
Acoustics
8. A development permit application for dwelling uses must include an acoustical report
prepared by a registered professional acoustical engineer demonstrating that the noise levels in
those portions of the dwelling units listed below will not exceed the noise levels expressed in
decibels set opposite such portions of the dwelling units. For the purposes of this section, the
noise level is the A-weighted 24-hour equivalent (Leq24) sound level and will be defined simply
as noise level in decibels.
Portions of dwelling units Noise levels (Decibels)
Bedrooms 35
Living, dining, recreation rooms 40
Kitchen, bathrooms, hallways 45
Severability
9. A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
Force and Effect
10. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 7th day of March, 2023
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Rosemary Hagiwara”
Acting City Clerk