4949-5255 Heather Street and
657 West 37th Avenue (South)
BY-LAW NO. 14247
A By-law to amend
Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575
to rezone an area to CD-1
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
Zoning District Plan Amendment
1. This By-law amends the Zoning District Plan attached as Schedule D to By-law No. 3575,
and amends or substitutes the boundaries and districts shown on it, according to the
amendments, substitutions, explanatory legends, notations, and references shown on the plan
attached as Schedule A to this By-law, and incorporates Schedule A into Schedule D of By-law
No. 3575.
Designation of CD-1 District
2. The area shown within the heavy black outline on Schedule A is hereby designated
CD-1 (881).
Definitions
3. Words in this By-law have the meanings given to them in the Zoning and Development
By-law, except that:
“Below-Market Rental Housing Units” means dwelling units where the maximum starting
rents are set at least 25% less than the average rents for all private rental apartment units
city-wide, as published by the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation in the Rental
Market Report, all as secured by a housing agreement registered on title to the property.
Sub-areas
4. The site is to consist of seven sub-areas generally as illustrated in Figure 1, solely for the
purpose of establishing the conditions of use, floor area and density, and maximum permitted
building heights for each sub-area.
1Figure 1: Sub-areas
Uses
5. Subject to Council approval of the form of development, to all conditions, guidelines and
policies adopted by Council, and to the conditions set out in this By-law or in a development
permit, the only uses permitted within CD-1 (881), and the only uses for which the Director of
Planning or Development Permit Board will issue development permits are:
(a) Agricultural Uses, limited to Urban Farm;
(b) Dwelling Uses, limited to Dwelling Units in conjunction with any of the uses listed
in this By-law, Multiple Dwelling, Seniors Supportive or Assisted Housing, and
Temporary Modular Housing;
(c) Cultural and Recreational Uses, limited to Artist Studio, Park or Playground, and
Plaza;
(d) Institutional Uses, limited to Child Day Care Facility, and School – Elementary or
Secondary;
2(e) Retail Uses, limited to Farmers’ Market, Neighbourhood Grocery Store, and Retail
Store; and
(f) Accessory uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section.
Conditions of Use
6.1 All commercial uses permitted by this By-law shall be carried on wholly within a completely
enclosed building except for:
(a) Farmers’ Market; and
(b) Display of plants, flowers, fruit and vegetables in conjunction with a permitted use.
6.2 The Director of Planning may vary the use conditions of section 6.1 to permit the outdoor
display of retail goods, and may include such other conditions as the Director of Planning deems
necessary, having regard to the types of merchandise, the area and location of the display with
respect to adjoining sites, the hours of operation and the intent of this By-law.
6.3 In sub-areas A and E, uses are limited to Dwelling Units in conjunction with any of the
uses listed in this By-law and Multiple Dwelling where all of the dwelling units are secured as
social housing.
6.4 In sub-area D, uses are limited to School – Elementary or Secondary, and Child Day Care.
6.5 In sub-area P, uses are limited Park or Playground, Plaza, and Farmers’ Market.
6.6 In sub-areas B, C, and F, uses are limited to Dwelling Uses, except that Retail Uses may
be permitted at-grade fronting Heather Street, West 35th Avenue or West 37th Avenue.
6.7 The design and layout of at least 35% of the strata dwelling units shall:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
(b) include two or more bedrooms, of which:
(i) at least 25% of the total dwelling units must be two-bedroom units, and
(ii) at least 10% of the total dwelling units must be three-bedroom units.
6.8 The design and layout of at least 35% of each of the secured market rental dwelling units
and below-market rental dwelling units shall:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
(b) include two or more bedrooms.
6.9 The design and lay-out of at least 50% of the social housing dwelling units shall:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
3(b) include two or more bedrooms.
Floor Area and Density
7.1 The total floor area for all uses must not exceed 142,628 m2, and the total floor area for
the sub-areas listed below in Figure 2 must not exceed the floor area set out for that sub-area or
those sub-areas in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Maximum Permitted Floor Area
Sub-Area Maximum permitted floor area (m2)
A and E, 32,328
combined
B and C, 64,798
combined
F 45,502
7.2 The total floor area for secured market dwelling units, below-market rental dwelling units,
and dwelling units secured as social housing in the sub-areas listed below in Figure 3 must not
be less than the floor area set out for that sub-area or those sub-areas in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Minimum Required Floor Area
Sub-Area Required minimum floor area (m2)
Secured Market Below-Market Rental Social Housing
Rental Dwelling Dwelling Units Dwelling Units
Units
A and E, 32,328
combined
B and C, 23,125 7,708
combined
F 2,033 678
7.3 The total floor area for retail uses in sub-areas B, C, and F combined must not exceed
230 m2.
7.4 In sub-area D, the total floor area for Institutional Uses must not be less than 4,700 m2.
7.5 No less than 1,234 m2 of residential amenity floor area must be provided.
7.6 No less than 3.7 m2 of residential storage space must be provided for each dwelling unit.
7.7 Computation of floor area must include all floors, including earthen floor, above and below
ground level, having a minimum ceiling height of 1.2 m, measured to the extreme outer limits of
the building.
7.8 Computation of the floor area must exclude:
(a) balconies and decks and any other appurtenances which, in the opinion of the
Director of Planning, are similar to the foregoing, except that:
4(i) the total area of these exclusions in each sub-area must not exceed 12%
of the floor area being provided, and
(ii) the balconies must not be enclosed for the life of the building;
(b) patios and decks, only if the Director of Planning first approves the design of
sunroofs and walls;
(c) where floors are used for off-street parking and loading, the taking on or
discharging of passengers, residential storage area, bicycle storage area, heating
and mechanical equipment of uses which in the opinion of the Director of Planning
are similar to the foregoing, those floors or portions thereof so used, which are at
or below the base surface, except that the exclusion for a parking space must not
exceed 7.3 m in length.
(d) entries, porches and verandas if the Director of Planning first approves the
design.
7.9 Computation of the floor area may exclude, at the discretion of the Director of Planning
or Development Permit Board:
(a) School - Elementary and Child Day Care Facility uses in sub-area D secured to
the City’s satisfaction for public use and benefit; and
(b) residential amenity areas, except that the total floor area excluded must not exceed
1,234 m2.
Building Height
8. Buildings in each sub-area must not exceed the maximum permitted height for that sub-
area, measured from base surface, as set out in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Maximum Permitted Building Storeys and Building Height
Sub-Area Maximum permitted Maximum permitted
storeys height in meters
A 19 61.0
B 24 76.2
C 16 51.9
D 4 18
E 15 48.8
F 25 79.2
P 1 5
5Horizontal Angle of Daylight
9.1 Each habitable room must have at least one window on an exterior wall of a building.
9.2 The location of each such exterior window must allow a plane or planes extending from
the window and formed by an angle of 50 degrees, or two angles with a sum of 70 degrees, to
encounter no obstruction over a distance of 24.0 m.
9.3 Measurement of the plane or planes referred to in section 9.2 must be horizontally from
the centre of the bottom of each window.
9.4 The Director of Planning or Development Permit Board may relax the horizontal angle of
daylight requirement if the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board first considers all
the applicable policies and guidelines adopted by Council, and:
(a) the minimum distance of unobstructed view is not less than 3.7 m; or
(b) the habitable room is within a unit assigned to moderate income households and
containing a minimum of three bedrooms, where the horizontal angle of daylight
requirement is relaxed for no greater than one of the habitable rooms in the unit.
9.5 An obstruction referred to in section 9.2 means:
(a) any part of the same building excluding permitted projections; or
(b) the largest building permitted on any adjoining site.
9.6 A habitable room referred to in section 9.1 does not include:
(a) a bathroom; or
(b) a kitchen whose floor area is the lesser of:
(i) 10% or less of the total floor area of the dwelling unit; or
(ii) 9.3 m2.
Acoustics
10. A development permit application for dwelling uses must include an acoustical report
prepared by a registered professional acoustic engineer demonstrating that the noise levels in
those portions of the dwelling units listed below will not exceed the noise levels expressed in
decibels set opposite such portions of the dwelling units. For the purposes of this section, the
noise levels in this the A-weighted 24-hour equivalent (Leq24) sound level and will be defined
simply as noise level in decibels.
Portions of dwelling units Noise levels (Decibels)
Bedrooms 35
Living, dining, recreation rooms 40
Kitchen, bathrooms, hallways 45
6Severability
11. A decision by a court that any part of this By-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this By-law, and is not to affect the balance of this By-law.
Force and Effect
12. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 4th day of February, 2025
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk
7