CITY OF VANCOUVER
BRITISH COLUMBIA
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURE
BY-LAW NO. 14357
This By-law is printed under and
by authority of the Council of
the City of Vancouver
June 3, 2025BY-LAW NO. 14357
Development Approval Procedure By-law
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
PART 1
INTERPRETATION
By-law name
1.1 The name of this By-law, for citation, is the Development Approval Procedure By-law.
Scope
1.2 This By-law establishes procedures to facilitate Council decisions on Zoning and
Development By-law amendments and Official Development Plan (ODP) amendments.
1.3 Procedures relating to applications for the issuance of development permits are in section
4 of the Zoning and Development By-law.
Definitions
1.4 In this By-law:
“active” means an application that has been accepted as complete but has not been
enacted, or withdrawn.
“applicant” means the owner, or owner’s authorized representative, of a site that is the
subject of an application under this By-law.
“application” means an application for a zoning amendment or an ODP amendment
under this By-law.
“application form” means an application form for a zoning amendment or an ODP
amendment under this By-law.
“application guide” means supplementary information about the rezoning or ODP
amendment process with descriptions and criteria for including specific application
materials.
“application materials” means reports, studies, drawings, and other documents
identified by City staff that should be provided to form a complete application.
“By-law” means this By-law, including all the schedules.
“Director of Planning” means the person appointed by Council pursuant to section 560
of the Vancouver Charter and includes the authorized representatives of the Director of
Planning.“enhanced rezoning proposal” means an enquiry that requires additional and
substantive upfront planning and is subject to Schedule 2, Section 9 of the Zoning and
Development Fee By-law (Application Requiring Policy, Planning and Consultation Work).
“enquiry” means a formal rezoning proposal required under section 2.2 of this By-law
that is subject to Schedule 2, Section 8 of the Zoning and Development Fee By-law
(Application for Rezoning Advice), and involves correspondence and documented advice
from staff.
“Official Development Plan” or “ODP” means an Official Development Plan adopted
under Part XXVII of the Vancouver Charter.
“policy” means a Council-approved direction, adopted by resolution, relating to matters
such as planning principles, specific land uses, development in specific areas, and
rezoning that is intended to guide decision-making and land use.
“rezoning” means the process of amending the Zoning and Development By-law to
enable a site-specific development initiated by an applicant.
“site” means the land or lands subject to a rezoning enquiry or application under this
By-law.
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act
1.5 All documents accompanying a rezoning application or rezoning enquiry submitted to the
City become the property of the City and are subject to the Freedom of Information and
Protection of Privacy Act.
Severability
1.6 A decision by a court that any part of this By-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this By-law, and is not to affect the balance of this By-law.
PART 2
REZONING PRE-APPLICATION
Rezoning Enquiry
2.1 The Director of Planning may create rezoning enquiry forms, enquiry guides, and
supplementary materials.
2.2 A rezoning enquiry is required for rezoning applications that is not consistent with an ODP
or where the Director of Planning determines that the proposed development represents
a significant departure from Council policy or triggers an ODP amendment.
2.3 If an applicant does not provide information or documents requested by City staff regarding
a rezoning enquiry within six (6) months of the request, the Director of Planning may
cancel the rezoning enquiry and submission of a new enquiry will be necessary.
2.4 Staff advice documented through a rezoning enquiry should be reflected in the rezoning
application. Staff advice is intended to reflect Council policy and priorities at the time theadvice is provided. Failure to reflect staff advice in a rezoning application may result in
processing delays during the rezoning application process.
2.5 Director of Planning advice provided through a rezoning enquiry does not constitute a
recommendation for approval of the application.
Enhanced Rezoning
2.6 The Director of Planning may require an applicant to submit an enhanced rezoning
proposal in addition to or instead of a rezoning enquiry. The Director of Planning may
require additional submissions, public consultation, and reviews by advisory panels or
other bodies as part of an enhanced rezoning proposal.
PART 3
APPLICANT AND STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES
Responsibilities of Applicants
3.1 An applicant seeking Council’s consideration of a rezoning application or ODP
amendment application must:
(a) notify all existing residential tenants on the site prior to submission of the
application and as further requested by staff;
(b) attach the relevant application materials that enable a review, to be checked for
completeness by City staff;
(c) complete and file an application form with the City;
(d) pay all fees imposed by the Zoning and Development Fee By-law and the
Miscellaneous Fees By-law;
(e) communicate delays, disclose transfers of ownership, or any change in applicant
contact information to staff in a timely manner;
(f) supplement, revise, or resubmit application materials requested by staff during the
application process in a timely manner; and
(g) be prepared to present to and attend Council meetings and other meetings
including tenant meetings, community meetings or advisory board meetings as
requested by staff.
Responsibilities of Staff
3.2 Staff processing an enquiry or application must:
(a) communicate a target processing timeline to an applicant upon intake of a
complete enquiry or application submission;
(b) provide updates to an applicant on any enquiry or application deficiencies, issues
or delays in a timely manner;(c) prepare materials for public consultation and arrange meetings with tenants,
community, and advisory boards as necessary; and
(d) arrange public notice as necessary and prepare a report for Council decision.
PART 4
REZONING APPLICATION
Application Intake
4.1 The Director of Planning may create and amend rezoning application forms, application
guides, and supplementary materials.
4.2 A site may not be subject to more than one active applicant-initiated rezoning application
at any time.
4.3 Notwithstanding section 4.2, the Director of Planner may permit an applicant to seek to
modify the conditions of approval or draft By-law of an active rezoning application following
Council’s approval in principle, if the modifications are deemed minor. A report containing
these proposed modifications will be brought to Council for decision.
Application Processing
4.4 Upon receiving a complete rezoning application, staff will circulate the application for both
internal and external review, as necessary, and prepare conditions of approval.
4.5 After completing the processing steps under section 4.4, staff must bring forward a
rezoning application report to Council where the Director of Planning may recommend
approval, refusal or further considerations, for decision by Council.
4.6 Council must consider a rezoning application report brought forward under section 4.5 of
this By-law but may refuse to refer an application to a Council meeting or Public Hearing.
Incomplete and Inactive Applications
4.7 If an applicant does not provide information or documents requested by City staff regarding
the rezoning application within six (6) months of the request, the Director of Planning may
cancel the rezoning application.
Approval of Form of Development
4.8 In accordance with section 565 (1.1) of the Vancouver Charter, Council has delegated the
authority to approve the form of development to the Director of Planning by enacting
section 3.1.7 of the Zoning and Development By-law.
4.9 An applicant is entitled to have Council reconsider any form of development decision by
the Director of Planning by delivering a request in writing to the City Clerk within 14 days
of the decision, setting out the reasons for the request.PART 5
ODP AMENDMENTS
ODP Amendment Application Processing
5.1 The Director of Planning may create and amend ODP amendment application forms, ODP
amendment application guides, and supplementary materials.
5.2 A site may not be subject to more than one active applicant-initiated ODP amendment
application at any time.
5.3 Upon receiving a complete ODP amendment application, staff will circulate the application
for internal and external review, as appropriate.
5.4 Staff must bring forward an ODP amendment application report to Council where the
Director of Planning may recommend approval, refusal or further considerations, for
decision by Council.
5.5 Council must consider the ODP amendment application report brought forward under
section 5.4 of this By-law but may refuse to refer an application to a Public Hearing.
PART 6
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Public Notice
6.1 Notice must be given in accordance with the Vancouver Charter.
Public Consultation
6.2 The Director of Planning may provide for additional public consultation by:
(a) requiring that one or more notification signs are installed on the development site;
(b) instructing staff to post information on an application webpage,
(c) instructing staff to send postcard notification(s) to neighbours,
(d) instructing staff to host one or more in-person or virtual events, and
(e) requiring other forms of public engagement as appropriate.
6.3 Official Development Plan amendments are subject to additional consultation
requirements in accordance with the Vancouver Charter.
PART 7
COUNCIL AUTHORITY
Requirement for Public Hearing
7.1 Council must comply with section 559.02 of the Vancouver Charter.7.2 Following a council meeting or a public hearing regarding a rezoning or a public hearing
regarding an ODP amendment, Council may:
(a) approve the application;
(b) approve the application with amendments;
(c) refuse the application; or
(d) refer the application back to staff.
Reapplication
7.3 Reapplications are governed by section 6 of the Zoning and Development By-law and
section 561.01(3) of the Vancouver Charter.
PART 8
ENACTMENT
8.1 This By-law is to come into force and take effect upon section 8 of the Vancouver Charter
Amendment Act (No 2.), 2024 coming into force by regulation of the Lieutenant Governor
in Council of British Columbia.
8.2 Any rezoning applications submitted prior to this By-law coming into effect are not subject
to section 2.2 of this By-law.
ENACTED by Council this 3rd day of June, 2025
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk