6486 Chester Street
BY-LAW NO. 14664
A By-law to amend
Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575
to rezone an area to CD-1
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
Zoning District Plan Amendment
1. This by-law amends the Zoning District Plan attached as Schedule D to By-law
No. 3575, and amends or substitutes the boundaries and districts shown on it, according to the
amendments, substitutions, explanatory legends, notations, and references shown on the plan
attached as Schedule A to this by-law, and incorporates Schedule A into Schedule D of By-law
No. 3575.
Designation of CD-1 District
2. The area shown within the heavy black outline on Schedule A is hereby designated
CD-1 (923).
Sub-areas
3. The site is to consist of two sub-areas generally as illustrated in Figure 1, solely for the
purposes of establishing the conditions of use, the maximum permitted density, and the building
height of each sub-area.
Figure 1: Sub-areas
A
BUses
4. Subject to approval of the form of development, to all conditions, guidelines and policies
adopted by Council, and to the conditions set out in this by-law or in a development permit, the
only uses permitted within this CD-1 and the only uses for which the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board will issue development permits are:
(a) Dwelling Uses, limited to Apartment;
(b) Utility and Communication Uses, limited to Public Utility; and
(c) Accessory Uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section.
Conditions of Use
5.1 The design and layout of at least 35% of the dwelling units must:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
(b) have 2 or more bedrooms.
5.2 Sub-area B is limited to public utility use.
Floor Area and Density
6.1 Computation of floor area must assume that the site area is 2,618.8 m2, being the site
area at the time of the application for the rezoning evidenced by this by-law, prior to any
dedications.
6.2 The maximum floor space ratio for all uses combined is 2.90.
6.3 In sub-area A, the maximum floor space ratio for all uses combined is 2.77.
6.4 Computation of floor area must include all floors having a minimum ceiling height of 1.2 m,
both above and below base surface, measured to the extreme outer limits of the building.
6.5 Computation of floor area must exclude:
(a) balconies and decks and any other appurtenances which, in the opinion of the
Director of Planning, are similar to the foregoing, provided that:
(i) the total area of these exclusions must not exceed 12% of the floor area
being provided, and
(ii) the balconies must not be enclosed for the life of the building;
(b) patios and roof decks, if the Director of Planning considers the impact on privacy
and outlook;
(c) floors or portions thereof that are used for:(i) off-street parking and loading located at or below base surface, provided
that the maximum exclusion for a parking space does not exceed 7.3 m in
length,
(ii) bicycle storage, and
(iii) heating and mechanical equipment, or uses that the Director of Planning
considers similar to the foregoing;
(d) entries, porches and verandahs if the Director of Planning first approves the
design;
(e) all residential storage area above or below base surface, except that if residential
storage area above base surface exceeds 3.7 m2 per dwelling unit, there will be no
exclusion for any of the residential storage area above base surface for that unit;
(f) all storage area below base surface for non-dwelling uses; and
(g) all floor area below base surface for public utility uses.
6.6 The Director of Planning or Development Permit Board may exclude common amenity
areas from the computation of floor area, to a maximum of 10% of the total permitted floor area,
if the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board considers the intent of this by-law and all
applicable Council policies and guidelines.
Building Height
7.1 Building heights in each sub-area must not exceed the permitted height for that sub-area,
as set out in Table 1.
7.2 Despite section 7.1 of this by-law and the building height regulations in section 10 of the
Zoning and Development By-law, if the Director of Planning may permit common rooftop amenity
space or mechanical appurtenances including elevator overrun and rooftop access structures in
a sub-area, the height of the portions of the building with the permitted common rooftop amenity
space or mechanical appurtenances must not exceed the permitted building height for that sub-
area, as set out in Table 1.
Table 1: Permitted Building Height
Building height for portions of building with
Sub-area Building height permitted common rooftop amenity space or
mechanical appurtenances
A 20.5 m 23.5 m
B 4.7 m 8.5 m
Access to Natural Light
8.1 Each habitable room must have at least 1 window on an exterior wall of a building.8.2 For the purposes of section 8.1 above, habitable room means any room except a bathroom
or a kitchen.
Severability
9. A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
Force and Effect
10. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 14th day of April, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk