1700-1750 West 75th Avenue
BY-LAW NO. 14666
A By-law to amend
CD-1 (198) By-law No. 6254
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
1. This by-law amends the indicated provisions of By-law No. 6254.
2. In section 2, Council strikes out the bulleted list and substitutes the following:
“
(a) Cultural and Recreational Uses, limited to Hall;
(b) Institutional Uses, limited to Public Authority Use;
(c) Manufacturing Uses, limited to Bakery Products Manufacturing, Batteries
Manufacturing, Chemicals or Chemical Products Manufacturing - Class B, Clothing
Manufacturing, Dairy Products Manufacturing, Electrical Products or Appliances
Manufacturing, Food or Beverage Products Manufacturing - Class B, Furniture or
Fixtures Manufacturing, Ice Manufacturing, Jewelry Manufacturing, Leather Products
Manufacturing, Linoleum or Coated Fabrics Manufacturing, Machinery or Equipment
Manufacturing, Metal Products Manufacturing - Class B, Miscellaneous Products
Manufacturing - Class B, Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing, Non-Metallic Mineral
Products Manufacturing - Class B, Paper Products Manufacturing, Plastic Products
Manufacturing, Printing or Publishing, Rubber Products Manufacturing, Shoes or
Boots Manufacturing, Textiles or Knit Goods Manufacturing, Tobacco Products
Manufacturing, Transportation Equipment Manufacturing, Vegetable Oil
Manufacturing and Wood Products Manufacturing - Class B;
(d) Office Use, limited to General Office Use;
(e) Service Uses, limited to Laboratory, Production or Rehearsal Studio and Restaurant
– Class 1;
(f) Transportation and Storage Uses, limited to Cold Storage Plant, Packaging Plant,
Storage Warehouse and Storage Yard;
(g) Utility and Communication Uses, limited to Public Utility and Radiocommunication
Station;
(h) Wholesale Uses, limited to Wholesaling – Class A; and
(i) Accessory Uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section but not
including any retail use.”.3. Council adds new sections 2A and 2B in the correct alphanumerical order as follows:
“Sub-area
2.A The said area is to include one sub-area shown within the heavy black outline
generally as illustrated in Figure 1, solely for the purpose of establishing the
permitted additional uses for this sub-area.
Figure 1: Sub-area 1
Uses
2.B Despite section 2, and subject to approval of the form of development, to all
conditions, guidelines and policies adopted by Council, and to the conditions set out
in this By-law or in a development permit, the following additional uses are permitted
within Sub-Area 1, and the only additional uses within Sub-Area 1 for which the
Director of Planning of Development Permit Board will issue development permits are:
(a) Cultural and Recreational Uses, limited to Art Studio Class A, Art Studio Class
B, provided that the use must not be combined with a residential unit and Arts
and Culture Event;
(b) Institutional Uses, limited to Child Day Care Facility, School – Elementary or
Secondary, School – University or College and Social Service Centre;
(c) Manufacturing Uses, limited to Brewing or Distilling and Information
Communication Technology Manufacturing;
(d) Office Uses, limited to Health Care Office;
(e) Retail Uses, limited to Farmers’ Market, Furniture or Appliance Store, Public
Bike Share, Retail Store, Shared E-Scooter System and Vehicle Dealer;
(f) Service Uses, limited to Animal Clinic, Auction Hall, Catering Establishment,
Photofinishing or Photography Lab, Photofinishing or Photography Studio,Print Shop, Production or Rehearsal Studio, Repair Shop – Class A, Repair
Shop – Class B, School – Arts or Self-Improvement, School – Business,
School – Vocational or Trade, Sign Painting Shop and Workshop;
(g) Wholesale Uses, limited to Wholesaling – Class B; and
(h) Accessory Uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section.”.
4. Council adds a new section 3.6 in the correct numerical order as follows:
“3.6 Dwelling unit may be permitted in combination with any use listed in section 2 of this
schedule if:
(a) It is for a caretaker or other person similarly employed; and
(b) such dwelling unit is considered to be essential to the operation of the
business or establishment.”.
5. In section 8, Council strikes out “The maximum floor space ratio shall be 0.60.” and
substitutes the following:
“The maximum floor space ratio is 0.60, except that the floor area for:
(a) industrial uses must not be less than 1,354 m² of the total gross floor area of all
principal and accessory uses in Sub-area 1 combined;
(b) retail uses, including accessory retail use, must not exceed 500 m²; and
(c) restaurant - class 1 must not exceed 300 m².”.
6. In section 8, Council strikes out paragraph 4 and substitutes the following:
“The Director of Planning may permit an increase in the maximum floor space ratio for any
laboratory or manufacturing use provided that the Director of Planning takes into account the
height, bulk, location and overall design of the building and the relationship of the
development with nearby residential areas and park sites and provided further that the total
floor space ratio shall in no case exceed 0.75.”.
7. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 14th day of April, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk