Vancouver Official Development Plan
BY-LAW NO. 14660
A By-law to adopt the Vancouver Official Development Plan
WHEREAS:
A. Council has referred the by-law for comment to the Board of the Metro Vancouver
Regional District.
B. Council has considered applicable provincial guidelines related to transit-oriented areas.
C. Council has considered the proposed interim official development plan in conjunction
with:
(i) financial planning documents and policies it deems relevant, including:
• recent annual budgets (2025 and 2026 annual budgets);
• most recent capital plan (2023-2026 Capital Plan, and 2023-2026 Capital
Plan Mid-term Update);
• financing growth updates (2023-2032 Development Cost Levy Update,
2025 reports on Supporting Development Viability and Unlocking New
Housing Supply); and
(ii) any waste management plan under Part 3 [Municipal Waste Management] of the
Environmental Management Act that is applicable in the city, including:
• Metro Vancouver’s Integrated Solid Waste and Resource Management
Plan (2010), and
• Metro Vancouver’s Integrated Liquid Waste Management Plan (2011).
D. Council has considered the most recent housing needs report received by the Council,
and the housing information on which the report is based.
E. Council has specifically considered whether consultation regarding this By-law is
required with:
(i) the Metro Vancouver Regional District;
(ii) the council of any municipality that is adjacent to the area covered by the plan;
(iii) First Nations;
(iv) boards of education and greater boards;
(v) the Provincial and federal governments and their agencies.
And whether opportunities for consultation with one or more of the persons,
organizations and authorities, if required, should be early and ongoing.
F. Council has consulted with the Agricultural Land Commission.
G. Council has consulted with the Boards of Education regarding the Official Development
Plan adopted by this By-law and has sought its input as to the matters set out in section
562.1(2) of the Vancouver Charter.
H. Council has held a Public Hearing on this By-law and the Official Development Plan.NOW THEREFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts
as follows:
1. Council adopts the Vancouver Official Development Plan, attached to this By-law as
Schedule A.
2. Schedule A forms part of this By-law.
3. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 31st day of March, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City ClerkSCHEDULE A
Vancouver
Official
Development
PlanTABLE OF CONTENTS
Land Acknowledgement 4
PART 1: Introduction and Overview 6
PART 2: Plan Foundations 32
PART 3: Plan Aspirations 42
PART 4: Future Growth 50
FG1. Urban Structure Strategy 53
FG2. Generalized Land Use Designations 80
PART 5: Policy Areas 98
Adopted by By-law No.14660
1. Housing 100
Adoption Date: March 31, 2026
2. Economy 112
3. Climate 120
4. Ecology 124
5. Transportation 130
6. Childcare 138
7. Community Infrastructure 142
8. Arts, Culture and Heritage 152
9. Parks and Public Space 158
10. Utilities 166
11. Food Systems 176
12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction 178
PART 6: Implementation 186
Appendix A: Regional Context Statement 194
Appendix B: Additional Maps 232
Glossary 240
VANCOUVER ODP | 1LIST OF FIGURES, TABLES, & MAPS
Figure 1: Vancouver within the region 12 Map 1: Disproportionately impacted populations 39
Figure 2: Estimated population growth in Vancouver 13 Map 2: Urban Structure Strategy 61
Map 3: Equity and resilience composite under current conditions 75
Figure 3: Municipal toolkit 16
Map 4: Generalized Land Use map 85
Figure 4: Key stages of the planning process 18
Map 5: Housing opportunities 101
Figure 5: Vancouver Plan engagement participation 21
Map 6: Employment area opportunities 113
Figure 6: Vancouver ODP consultation 23
Map 7: Ecological Network vision 125
Figure 7: Vancouver ODP structure 29
Map 8: Long-term transit network 131
Figure 8: Land use framework 31 Map 9: Long-term greenway network 132
Figure 9: Connections between the Foundational Principles 35 Map 10: Walkability and access to jobs by transit 133
Map 11: Major Road Network 135
Figure 10: Relationship between land use policies and regulations 52
Map 12: City-facilitated childcare 139
Figure 11: City building layers 55
Map 13: Community facilities 143
Figure 12: Complete neighbourhoods and climate action 56
Map 14: Civic services, health, and public safety 144
Figure 13: Options for shopping streets 58
Map 15: Current and future public schools 150
Figure 14: Building blocks of the GLU 81
Map 16: Arts, culture and heritage policy support areas 153
Figure 15: Policy Area elements 99 Map 17: Parks and public space 159
Figure 16: Building types that allow for different tenures of housing 103 Map 18: Urban watersheds 167
Map 19: Water distribution infrastructure 170
Figure 17: Vancouver’s carbon pollution - trends and future targets 121
Map 20: Sewer and drainage infrastructure 171
Figure 18: One Water planning approach 168
Map 21: Long-term Blue Green Network 172
Map 22: False Creek neighbourhood energy utility coverage area 175
Map 23: Surface flood hazard areas 181
Table 1: Neighbourhood type guidelines 78
Map 24: Extreme heat hazard 182
Table 2: Supplementary site constraints 82
Map 25: Ground shaking intensity 183
Table 3: Height exceptions to GLU designations 82
Map 26: Areas of amplification and liquefaction 183
Map A1: Regional land use designations and overlays 231
Map B1: Regional land use designations and overlays 233
Map B2: Area-specific policies and regulations (city-wide) 234
Map B3: Area-specific policies and regulations (central) 235
Map B4: Area-specific policies and regulations (policy statements) 236
Map B5: In-progress major project sites 237
Map B6: Sites where residential may be considered within 200m of a rapid
transit station in employment areas 238
Map B7: Environmentally sensitive areas 239
2 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 3Land Acknowledgement
The City of Vancouver humbly acknowledges that the lands to
which the Vancouver Official Development Plan (ODP) applies are
the unceded territories of the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam Indian
Band), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation), and səlilwətaɬ
(Tsleil-Waututh Nation). The local Nations have called this place
home since time immemorial and have stewarded these lands and
waterways to ensure prosperity for future generations.
Recognizing the lives, cultures, languages, and Peoples of this land,
the Vancouver ODP builds on the City’s commitment as a
City of Reconciliation.
Seawall at Stanley Park (Source: Mike Benna)
Path in Stanley Park (Source: City of Vancouver)
4 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 5Summer in a Vancouver Park (Source: City of Vancouver)
PART 1: THE VANCOUVER
OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
INTRODUCTION AND
The Vancouver Official Development Plan The City also has a number of other guiding
OVERVIEW
(ODP) is a statutory land use plan guiding city-wide strategies and frameworks
growth and change over the next 30 years that implement and are aligned with the
and beyond. It establishes a unified vision Vancouver ODP, like those for affordable
for the future land use of the city, with housing, transportation, climate change,
supportive policies that will help Vancouver arts and culture, healthy communities,
become a more livable, affordable, and reconciliation, equity, and resilience. The
sustainable city with a strong economy Vancouver ODP does not fully incorporate
where people and nature thrive. A city that these plans and strategies. Instead, it
is inclusive, diverse, and works for everyone. includes key components that require land
The Vancouver ODP sets a clear path forward use policies to advance their goals and
to achieve shared goals in an increasingly objectives. The ODP also provides the overall
complex future. context for developing new complementary
plans, policies, and regulations.
What is a city-wide Official Development Plan?
?
The Vancouver Charter requires the City to adopt a city-wide Official Development Plan (ODP),
and specifies what must be included. The city-wide ODP is primarily a land use plan:
• directing the location, type, and intensity of different types of land uses, such as residential,
mixed-use, industrial, and institutional;
• establishing a vision for the transportation network for the movement of people and goods;
• identifying the type, extent, and location of parks, open space and natural areas, and establishing
a vision for a connected ecological network;
• informing the planning of infrastructure and amenities needed to serve growth; and
• detailing consistency with the Regional Growth Strategy through a Regional Context Statement.
The creation of Vancouver Plan (approved in 2022) helped establish the vision, land use strategy, and
policy directions for guiding Vancouver’s growth over the coming decades. To advance this framework
into a statutory plan with parcel-based designations, Vancouver Plan was rescinded and replaced by the
Vancouver ODP. Vancouver also has topic- and area-specific ODPs, which will remain through an interim
period, and be repealed and integrated into the Vancouver ODP or other policies and regulations as
appropriate, by June 30, 2030.
6 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 7
Part
1
Introduction
and
Overview1. CONTEXT AND OPPORTUNITY
Our strengths Our challenges
Located on the traditional, unceded territories of the Convenient Transit – Convenient transit improves Despite Vancouver’s unparalleled advantages, our of Vancouver, 2025). More than one-third of residential
xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), sustainability, air quality, and healthy living. Eighty- city and its residents struggle with critical, immediate neighbourhoods do not have enough people living
and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Peoples, Vancouver is three percent of residents live close to a transit issues. in them to support local businesses. Nearly half
known for its beautiful natural setting, strong economy, route with service that comes at least once every 15 of Vancouver residents live in neighbourhoods
diverse communities, and vibrant neighbourhoods. minutes and 49 percent of residents live close to a Housing Affordability – Like many North without walkable access to daily needs such as
RapidBus stop or SkyTrain station (Census, 2021, City of American cities, housing affordability is our biggest food and services, with some neighbourhoods
Economically Strong – Vancouver is the economic Vancouver, 2025). This convenience reduces the need challenge. According to the 2021 Census, over 30 experiencing population decrease. Nevertheless,
engine of BC with globally recognized strengths for private vehicle trips and increases transit ridership. percent of renter households pay more than 30 these neighbourhoods possess a wealth of parks,
in many sectors including tech, film/television, With this connectivity, approximately 40 percent of percent of their income on rent and home ownership is community centres, libraries, schools, and leafy green
climate solutions, life sciences, tourism, arts, and all transit trips in the region take place in Vancouver not within reach for most residents who do not already streets able to accommodate new residents.
culture. The city includes the province’s two largest own property. More than 2,700 people experience
(TransLink, 2023).
business districts, Canada’s largest port, and a strong homelessness in the city (Homelessness Services Limited Fiscal Resources – Vancouver, like other
retail sector with well-loved shopping streets. This Green Access – Ninety-nine percent of residents Association of BC and Lu’ma Native Housing Society, Canadian cities, offers a broad range of services,
diversified economy provides a strong and resilient live within a 10-minute walk of a park or green space. 2025) and approximately 6,500 more are on the but also has increasing pressure on its limited
foundation for Vancouver businesses and residents. Vancouver is home to 726.5 hectares of natural areas precarious edge of homelessness (City of Vancouver, revenue sources to maintain, renew, and expand the
and has one of the most accessible park systems in 2023). infrastructure, services, and amenities that residents
Culturally Vibrant – Vancouver is the centre of North America. want and need to support livability and quality of life.
arts and culture with more than 11,200 professional Climate Emergency – The climate is rapidly
artists living in the city. Vancouver is home to a higher Locational Advantages – Vancouver is a coastal changing and by 2050 Vancouver can expect to High Risk for Earthquakes – Hundreds of small
concentration of artists per capita than any other seaport with a mild climate located close to many experience longer, hotter, drier summers, sea level earthquakes occur in the region every year, and while
major Canadian city (Census, 2021). significant regional assets including the North Shore rise, and heavier rainstorms with increased flooding. most go unnoticed, a major earthquake is inevitable
Mountains, large regional parks like Pacific Spirit Park, These changes in climate will have significant impacts in our future. Of the city’s 90,000 buildings, over half
Socially Diverse – Socially, racially, and ethnically and an international airport, and has Canada’s largest on residents, businesses, buildings, and infrastructure were built prior to 1974 and have no seismic resisting
diverse people and communities have instilled a and most diversified port. alike and require new municipal responses and structural systems. This means the city’s buildings,
flourishing array of cultures, traditions, customs, investments not previously contemplated. residents, and workers are highly vulnerable to the
languages, landmarks, and tangible and intangible There is a lot to love about Vancouver. While the city impacts of an earthquake event.
heritage elements from across the globe, enriching the is often praised for its natural setting and global Economic Pressures – Vancouver continues to be
city with unique and recognizable qualities. Fifty-five leadership, it is the people and their cultures, stories, the preferred location for employers in the region but Safety and Belonging – One in four Metro
percent of Vancouverites are racialized (i.e., visible and lived experiences that bring life to the city and more than half of the city’s jobs are located on only 10 Vancouver residents report feeling lonely and many
minority in Canadian Census) and 44 percent of people make it a highly desirable place to live, work, and visit. percent of the land, putting employment lands under people in the city struggle with isolation at least
have languages other than English as their mother tremendous pressure. This competition for space some of the time, impacting their well-being, health,
tongue (Census, 2021). means rising commercial and industrial rents in high and sense of belonging. This has a personal cost and
demand areas. places additional burdens on our healthcare and social
service sectors (SPEAK survey, 2023). Additionally,
Overdose Crisis – People in Vancouver continue nearly six in 10 Vancouverites report a weak sense of
to be severely impacted by the mix of long-standing belonging and worsening mental health. Exacerbating
mental health and public health crises and an this, hate crime incidents increased substantially
increasingly potent and toxic drug supply. The during the pandemic and have remained high, further
COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a substantial increase isolating communities who are racialized and who
in the number of people dying from drug poisoning experience a disproportionate impact of violence (BC
which has persisted to today, with 521 lives lost Stats, 2024).
in Vancouver in 2024 (BC Coroners Service, 2024).
Indigenous Peoples continue to be disproportionately These are significant problems that require complex
impacted due to the impacts of ongoing systemic and varied solutions. A ‘status quo’ approach to
racism and colonization. planning will not solve these problems. To create a
more equitable city that responds to the challenges of
Underutilized Neighbourhoods – As of our time, the Vancouver ODP strikes a new approach.
2025, low-density residential areas consume about
65 percent of the residentially zoned land while
Hot+Noisy Chinatown only providing for approximately 35 percent of the
Majong Social
population (BC Assessment, 2025; Census, 2025; City
(Source: City of Vancouver)
8 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 9
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
OverviewIntroduction to the local
Nations and relationship
to present-day Vancouver
This place is the unceded and ancestral homelands
of the hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm and Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh speaking
Peoples, the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-
Waututh). The territory known as Vancouver is part
of their traditional lands.
Since time immemorial, through the designation
of Musqueam’s Indian Reserve land, and to
present day, Musqueam’s community members
have resided on their reserve lands and off
reserve within present day Vancouver. The
Vancouver Charter references the geography
of Musqueam’s reserve lands, and Musqueam
members are eligible voters for City of Vancouver
elections. This longstanding history with one
another has established a unique government-to-
government relationship, including collaboration
for municipal/community services. More recently,
the Squamish Nation have designated reserve
lands located within the City of Vancouver’s
boundaries. The City is embarking on a new
Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh artists (right to left) featured on skyframes in sθәqәlxenәm ts'exwts'áxwi7.
relationship with the Squamish Nation of sharing Artists featured are Kitty Guerin (Musqueam), Ray Natraoro, a.k.a Ses Siyam (Squamish), and Candace Thomas (Tsleil-Waututh).
municipal/community services. (Source: City of Vancouver)
As Aboriginal title holders, Musqueam, Squamish,
and Tsleil-Waututh have unique rights with Musqueam Indian Band | Squamish Nation | Tsleil-Waututh Nation |
respect to governance, self-determination and xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw səlilwətaɬ
other rights of sovereign Indigenous Nations.
In the local Nation’s own words, excerpts from
the websites of each Nation are shared to affirm
the visibility and voice of Musqueam, Squamish,
“We are traditional hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓ speaking people. “Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw traditional territory is “Tsleil-Waututh First Nation: We are the Tsleil-
and Tsleil-Waututh in the work of building better
Today, we are a strong, growing community of over located in the Lower Mainland region of British Waututh Nation, “People of the Inlet.” According
relationships and futures on their lands.
1,300 members. Many of our members live on a small Columbia. . . . The territory of the Squamish People to archaeological evidence and our oral history,
portion of our traditional territory, known as the includes the Burrard Inlet, English Bay, False Creek, Tsleil-Waututh people have lived in this Traditional
Musqueam Indian Reserve, located south of Marine and Howe Sound watersheds. . . . Our historical links Territory for thousands of years. Burrard Inlet
Drive near the mouth of the Fraser River. We have to these lands and waters are numerous. Squamish sustains us with food, a place to live, spectacular
always moved throughout our territory using the place names exist throughout the territory. In many natural beauty. Our ancestors travelled throughout
resources it provides for fishing, hunting, trapping instances, a location has particular meaning to our the territory, keeping villages in different locations
and gathering. We remain distinct and our cultural people because of the existence of oral traditions to live wherever seasonal resources were plentiful.
practices are strong, despite the devastating impacts that served to explain that place in the Squamish Our lands and waters have shaped our culture and
of residential schools, colonial laws banning our universe and in our relationship to the land. In will be central to our way of life for generations to
ceremonies, and other attempts to assimilate our addition, the land bears witness to the settlements, come. We will continue to put the face of the Tsleil-
people. Our lands and waters continue to support resource sites, and spiritual and ritual places of our Waututh Nation back on our traditional territory,
our cultural and economic practices while serving as ancestors, including villages, hunting camps, cedar build capacity within our community, and participate
a source of knowledge and memory, encoded with bark gathering areas, rock quarries, clam processing on all levels—social, ecological, cultural, economic—
our teachings and laws.” (musqueam.bc.ca) camps, pictographs and cemeteries. Some of these in decision making within our lands.” (twnation.ca)
village sites date back 3000 years.” (squamish.net)
10 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 11Vancouver is the core of a
The Metro Vancouver Region
growing region Figure 1: Vancouver within the region
Vancouver is part of the Metro Vancouver region in BC, which is made up of a federation
of 21 municipalities, one Electoral Area, and one Treaty First Nation. As a member
Vancouver is the economic and cultural POPULATION JOBS HOUSING UNITS municipality, the City of Vancouver supports the Metro Vancouver Regional Growth
Strategy - Metro 2050, through the Regional Context Statement (RCS), included in the
centre of a dynamic, prosperous, and
ODP in Appendix A. The RCS articulates how the Plan advances regional goals at the city
rapidly growing region. The region is
level, and confirms consistency with the Regional Growth Strategy.
anticipated to grow by about a million
more people by 2050, with about half
a million more jobs and homes. With a
population of almost 3.1 million people,
As shown in Figure 1, Vancouver is home location for jobs, with 63 percent of the Metro Vancouver is the third largest
to approximately 25 percent of the region’s region’s office space located within the city
metropolitan area in Canada, only
total population, 34 percent of the jobs, (CBRE Research, Q4 2024). On average, 25
behind Toronto and Montreal (Stats
and 30 percent of the total housing units percent of immigrants coming to the region
Canada, 2024). Vancouver
Source: Population and housing units from Statistics (Census, 2016; 2021). Vancouver is expected land in Vancouver (Census, 2021).
Canada, 2021 Census of Population; Rest of Metro
Opposite: Figures showing population, to add about 240,000 more people (for a
Jobs from Statistics Canada, 2016 Census of Population. Vancouver Over the coming years, there will be regular
jobs and housing units in Vancouver and total population of about 998,000 people)
updates to population projections at the
the rest of the region. Below: Map showing and up to about 127,000 more jobs (for a
regional, sub-regional, and city level. These
Vancouver in the Metro Vancouver region. total of about 619,000 jobs) by 2050 (City of
will be based on new data, changing trends,
Vancouver, 2026). How Vancouver manages
updated housing needs assessments, and
its growth has important implications for its
Legernedsidents and the region. job numbers. The City will continue to
LIONS anticipate and respond to these changes
BAY VCanoncoteuxvte Ar riesa e Bxopuencdteadry to continue its role as throughout legislatively required ODP
the largest regional job centre and a hub for reviews and updates, as well as through ODP
Metro Vancouver
new immigration. Vancouver is the preferred implementation and future area planning.
BOWEN
DISTRICT OF
ISLAND WEST VANCOUVER
NORTH VANCOUVER
ANMORE Figure 2: Estimated population growth in Vancouver
BELCARRA 1,200,000
CITY OF
NORTH PORT
VANCOUVER MOODY
1,000,000
UEL / PORT
COQUITLAM
UBC COQUITLAM
BURNABY
VANCOUVER PITT MAPLE RIDGE 800,000
MEADOWS
NEW
WESTMINSTER
600,000
RICHMOND
400,000
SURREY
DELTA LANGLEY
CITY LANGLEY
TOWNSHIP 200,000
TSAWWASSEN
FIRST NATION 0
WHITE ROCK 1951 1956 1961 1966 1971 1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021 2026 2031 2036 2041 2046 2051
S ource: Metro Vancouver Regional Planning Data, Statistics Canada, 1951-2021 Census of Population, 2011 National Household Survey Profile,
USA City of Vancouver custom population and dwelling projections, 2025
Source: Metro Vancouver Regional Planning Data, Statistics Canada, 1951-2021 Census of Population,
2011 National Household Survey Profile, City of Vancouver custom population and dwelling projections,
2025
noitalupoP
Population Jobs Housing Units
25% 34% 30%
662,248 377,015 328,347
persons jobs dwelling units
75% 66% 70%
1,980,577 734,465 776,185
persons jobs dwelling units
Current numbers from VanPlan, to be updated.
Data is stored within the Word Document.
To update graphs, update data in word document and export to PDF
12 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 13
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
OverviewVancouver is a regional, provincial, national, and international leader
Beyond our central role in the region, Vancouver has In 2021, Council adopted the City’s Equity The City of Vancouver has a history of being Following the successes of Expo ’86 and the 2010
demonstrated a strong track record of advancing Framework that further calls for an equity- recognized as a leader in municipal environmental Olympic Winter Games, Vancouver has consistently
innovative solutions to tackle issues and challenges oriented lens on all areas of City work. This sustainability, including bold climate action. ranked as one of the most livable cities in the
faced by cities worldwide, including addressing past framework has supported key initiatives like the From 1990 when Vancouver became the first city world, rated for its stability, healthcare, culture,
harms. Accessibility Strategy (2022), which guides the City in North America to attempt to address climate environment, education, and infrastructure. As
in exceeding the requirements of the Accessible change with its "Clouds of Change" report, to this desirability, and other factors, contributed to
In 2014, Vancouver adopted the Reconciliation BC Act and advancing inclusive city-building and the most recent Climate Emergency Action Plan escalating housing costs, Vancouver responded
Framework with a long-term commitment of service delivery. All of this work is necessary and (2020), Vancouver’s action on climate has been with bold and progressive measures, including the
strengthening its relationship with Musqueam, ongoing. replicated and adopted by other governments creation of Canada’s first Empty Homes Tax and
Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations and urban locally and abroad. With the highest population policies and programs that support the creation of
Indigenous partners. In 2022, Musqueam, Squamish, A city surrounded by forests, rivers, lakes, density in Canada, Vancouver has long embraced new secured rental and social housing.
Tsleil-Waututh, and the City of Vancouver became and oceans has led to the early adoption of compact urban forms, walkable neighbourhoods,
the first intergovernmental partners in Canada and a strong environmental ethos. This has been and sustainable transportation modes as critical The Vancouver ODP builds on the leading work that
the world to collectively approve a local strategy reflected in the creation of world-renowned local solutions to combat climate change and maximize Vancouver continues to do to move it towards a more
on the United Nations Declaration of the Rights of organizations like the David Suzuki Foundation livability. just, equitable, and sustainable city.
Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP). and Greenpeace and leadership in sustainable
city-building.
Vancouver Skyline from Queen Elizabeth Park (Source: Vanexus Photos)
14 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 15Context: Roles and responsibilities
Business and
Building
economic policies
standards
Police and
fire rescue
Affordable housing and
homelessness services Community
centres and
libraries
Parks
Public art
Public
places
Landscaping
Sidewalks Water
and roads Childcare and sewer
Waste
Land use and infrastructure
collection
zoning
What does the city do?
The City of Vancouver provides a wide range of municipal
services to residents, workers, and visitors. It must Figure 3: Municipal toolkit
also build, maintain, and renew the infrastructure
and amenities required to provide those services. The INVEST
Vancouver Charter defines the powers and laws of the
City.
Think about your visit to the swimming pool. The City
maintains the sidewalks and roads that get you from
your home to the pool. The cashiers, lifeguards, and
cleaning staff help provide the service while at the
facility. In the background, the City takes care of the pool
building and even the pipes that supply the water, so this
experience is available for decades to come.
The City also undertakes area planning and regulates
REGULATE ADVOCATE
development. Our “municipal toolkit” has three main
tools (shown opposite).
$
A few of the services the City provides
What role do senior governments and regional
authorities play?
The Federal and Provincial Governments are The role of local and regional authorities
responsible for:
The City of Vancouver works with Metro Vancouver
• Ports, rail, and airports (governed by appointed elected officials from each
municipality), TransLink, Vancouver Coastal Health,
• Schools
the Vancouver School Board and the Conseil scolaire
• Hospitals francophone who deliver services at a local and
• Childcare regional level, including:
• Affordable housing • Regional planning and growth management
The City of Vancouver relies on senior levels of • Public transit
government to help deliver important services such as
• Drinking water and sewage: Regional treatment
housing and public and non-profit childcare projects.
facilities and major pipelines crossing city
boundaries
• Solid waste management: Waste reduction and
recycling planning, and regional solid waste
facilities
• Air and water quality monitoring
• Regional health services
• Public education
e.g., using property taxes to
deliver services; providing land
to build affordable housing
L
U
e.g., zoning of lands, e.g., asking and partnering
requiring public benefit with senior levels of
contributions from government to fund public
development transit, childcare, etc.
Photos from left to right: Port of Vancouver (Source: Cory Dobson); Temporary Modular Housing
(Source: Michelle Pollard); SkyTrain (Source: City of Vancouver)
16 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 172. PLAN PROCESS
Planning in the time of a global pandemic: learnings
from COVID-19
Path to a Vancouver Plan Planning Vancouver together Engagement
With the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic in
The Vancouver ODP is based in large part on the vision A city-wide plan requires a shared vision The engagement process for Vancouver Plan was 2020, the conversation about the city’s future took
and directions that were established in the Vancouver for our future that resonates across diverse designed to reach as many perspectives as possible on a heightened sense of importance. As our lives
Plan. The planning process for Vancouver Plan took communities. To achieve this, staff intentionally – reaching over 52,480 engagement touchpoints. were fundamentally altered, this became a time of
place between fall 2019 and spring 2022 and was designed outreach and engagement processes While broad public and stakeholder engagement reflection and learning. Important observations
completed in four phases. Details of the planning to reach diverse and under-represented people was essential to the development of the Plan, include:
process for the Vancouver Plan are included in this and communities to hear from new voices and added emphasis was placed on centering the
section. understand new ideas. voices that have typically been left out of planning • Disproportionate impacts experienced by
conversations, particularly equity-denied and women, lone-parents, low-income people,
Figure 4: Key stages of the planning process Through the Vancouver Plan planning process, under-represented groups. This included piloting families identifying as racialized, seniors, and
the City engaged with Musqueam, Squamish, new methods to engage equity-denied groups in people with disabilities.
and Tsleil-Waututh Nations (the local Nations), conversations about the future of their city.
• The importance of safe, secure, and self-
urban Indigenous Peoples, residents, senior
contained housing serving low-income and
governments and regional authorities,
vulnerable populations.
community groups, businesses, non-profits, civic
advisory bodies, and other stakeholders. The • The significance of outdoor public spaces for
process involved City Council and all departments connecting with family and friends, especially
of the City. for people living in higher-density housing
types without private yards.
• The value of having shops, services, public
spaces, and community infrastructure located
close to home.
• The urgent necessity of providing publicly
accessible basic needs such as drinking water
and washrooms, as well as warming centres
during the winter months and cooling centres
during the summer.
• The importance of industrial land for local
production, distribution, and repair services,
and activities when global supply chains were
disrupted.
• The value of nimble and responsive
governmental and private sector action, such
Phase 4 neighbourhood pop-up engagement event, Robson as repurposing streets and sidewalks for patio
Square (Source: Elijah Sabadlan) cafes, parklets, and other opportunities for
social connection.
Equity-denied groups
Equity-denied groups are those who have been excluded from the design of current societal,
governmental, and legal systems, and who face marginalization and discrimination as a result of that
exclusion. These groups are some of the most underserved in our community because of these systemic
barriers and include: people who identify as Indigenous, Black people, and people of African descent; people
Councillor Charlene Aleck and CAO Ernie Bones George, Tsleil- of colour and racialized people; people with disabilities and chronic illnesses; people who live with mental
Waututh Nation (Source: TWN Communications) health challenges; deaf and hard of hearing people; 2SLGBTQIA+ and gender diverse people; people with low
incomes; refugees, newcomers, and undocumented people; minority language communities; women and
girls; or youth and seniors.
18 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 19
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
OverviewIndigenous engagement Figure 5: Vancouver Plan engagement participation
To embed the City’s commitment to reconciliation into the
planning process, the City further established working PARTICIPATION
relationships through partnership agreements with
Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations, and the BY THE NUMBERS
Metro Vancouver Aboriginal Executive Council (MVAEC).
This aimed to strengthen relationships of mutual respect through four phases of engagement
and understanding, integrating Indigenous perspectives
from November 2019 to May 2022
into the Plan. Conversations occurred with each Nation and
MVAEC on Plan directions that are of fundamental interest
to them. By including Indigenous principles and decolonial Postcards Newsletters VancouverPlan.ca 52,480
processes in the development of the Plan, we seek to 318,581 37 newsletters 152,908
engagement
work in right relations with the local Nations and urban mailed to up to 2,237 page views contacts
Indigenous Peoples.
subscribers
("touchpoints")
Equity engagement
Phase 4 neighbourhood pop-up engagement event,
Equity engagement sessions focused on supporting the Chinatown (Source: Tanya Fink)
involvement of equity-denied groups and often involved
partnerships with Neighbourhood Houses, community
centres and spaces, and other non-profit organizations.
Outreach took the form of focus groups, information
sessions, workshops, presentations, and surveys. Sessions
were held in neighbourhoods across the city, including
the Downtown Eastside, Chinatown, Strathcona, Hastings-
Sunrise, Kensington-Cedar Cottage, Collingwood, and
Sunset. 4 Council Approximately 12 online surveys
30 pop-up
Youth engagement workshops available in at least
engagement 6 languages
The Young Planners Program included over 3,000 child
11 Councillor events including youth surveys and 2 Ipsos
and youth engagement contacts through a range of randomized polls
meetings in neighbourhoods across the city
activities that included digital studio sessions, youth
surveys, youth-led interviews, youth workshops, and in- with community groups
36 workshops 25,756 survey
classroom education programs. Partnerships made youth
engagement possible, with key supports from community 100 youth and meetings responses
centres and community youth workers, Neighbourhood Phase 4 neighbourhood pop-up engagement event, workshops with Council Advisory committees
Houses, the Vancouver School Board, and a range of youth- Carnegie Centre (Source: Andrew Pask)
presentations and sessions
serving and youth-led organizations. 5 “Future We Want”
for young planners 119 meetings
with stakeholder organizations and online events
29 neighbourhood community groups (in partnership with
Simon Fraser University)
charrettes, 185 meetings
mapping events, and and events 3 self-guided
with
workshops equity-denied walking tours
community
DIY conversation
members
kits
and the organizations that serve them
Advertising
90M+ impressions 746
from posters, transit shelters
and vehicles, restaurants, and other displays dispersed
throughout the city
Phase 3 neighbourhood pop-up engagement event, Output from a youth engagement session, Mount
Collingwood Neighbourhood House (Source: City of Vancouver) Pleasant, August 2021 (Source: Stina Hanson)
20 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 21
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
OverviewFigure 6: Vancouver ODP consultation
From Vancouver Plan to Vancouver ODP
Targeted consultation for the Vancouver ODP
began in 2024 and opportunity for public review
and feedback on the draft ODP took place in
October 2025.
How is the Vancouver ODP different
from Vancouver Plan?
Vancouver Plan’s directions, shaped through
In response to provincial legislative changes in 2024
the four phases of planning and extensive
establishing a requirement to adopt a city-wide ODP,
engagement described above, formed the Targeted Outreach
the City adapted Vancouver Plan into the Vancouver
ODP. Getting from Vancouver Plan to the Vancouver ODP basis of the ODP. The ODP also includes content 127 organizations
that is legislatively required by the Vancouver
entailed:
Charter (e.g., a new chapter on hazardous
Targeted Meetings
• Developing new legislatively required content lands, and maps and policies regarding lands
20+ sessions
through an interdepartmental process and with environmentally sensitive to development), as
input from external agencies; well as new content to reflect minor changes that
bring the Plan up to date with policies adopted
• Refining the draft ODP, including seeking review
by Council between approval of Vancouver Plan
by the local Nations and inviting public review and
and adoption of the ODP.
comment on the draft in fall 2025; and
• Adopting the ODP after: Unlike Vancouver Plan, the Vancouver ODP is a
statutory plan adopted by by-law. The Vancouver Public Events
⸰ a Public Hearing;
⸰ acceptance of the updated Regional Context Charter establishes that all future development 6 pop-ups
must be consistent with (not contrary to or at
Statement by the Board of Metro Vancouver; and 6 open houses
variance with) the Vancouver ODP. The Charter
⸰ meeting all procedural requirements of the
also includes requirements for periodic reviews 400 touchpoints
Vancouver Charter.
and updates to the ODP. Learning about the GLU, Champlain Heights
Community Centre, October 2025
(Source: Mariel Ciprian)
False Creek and Downtown (Source: City of Vancouver)
Talk Vancouver Survey
1,020 responses
Shape Your City
7,038 site visits
e-Newsletters
2,685 subscribers
Organic Posts
38,044 impressions
General Manager of Planning, Design and Sustainability,
Josh White, explains the ODP on an Instagram reel
Paid Ads
2.8M impressions
VANCOUVER ODP | 23
Part
1
Introduction
and
Overview
22 | VANCOUVER ODP
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP3. LOOKING TOWARDS 2050
Vision:
Vancouver is a city that lives in greater
balance with our ecological systems
while providing more complete, inclusive,
and resilient neighbourhoods where
Imagine a future where everyone in Vancouver has a home they
people of all ages, incomes, abilities, and can afford in a vibrant neighbourhood of their choice - one that
offers convenient access to all their daily needs such as grocery
backgrounds thrive.
stores, medical services, a library, neighbourhood house, and park
within a short walk or roll from home. Imagine all of Vancouver’s
neighbourhoods with accessible sidewalks and tree lined streets
that provide cool shade on hot summer days. A city where people
move around safely and comfortably, using the city’s high-quality
walking, biking, and transit networks. An economy that provides
jobs close to home or within a short commute. A community where
parents feel supported with easy access to quality, affordable
childcare, and seniors and singles feel connected. A learning
culture where youth are provided educational opportunities and
encouraged to pursue their greatest ambitions.
Imagine a Vancouver in which diversity is expressed prominently,
and the city embraces and reflects the original stewards of these
lands – the Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Peoples. A
place where nature has made its way back into the urban fabric.
People feel safe with a sense of belonging.
Vancouver residents want a city that is livable, affordable, and
sustainable – a place that is inclusive, diverse, and works for
everyone. The future we want is grounded in Three Foundational
Principles and will be achieved through Three Big Ideas.
Seawall at English Bay (Source: Aaron Lao)
24 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 25Three Foundational Principles are at the
Three Big Ideas represent the main aspirations for the ODP, characterizing
centre of the Vancouver ODP. new ways of growing for the city. The Big Ideas reflect community priorities
and integrate policies in all areas of the ODP, helping steer us to our desired
future.
Reconciliation
Equitable Housing and
We will continue to form relationships of mutual respect and Complete Neighbourhoods
understanding with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
(Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations and urban Allowing more housing options and opportunities for everyone to
Indigenous communities, integrating Indigenous perspectives choose a livable neighbourhood that meets their needs. Ensuring
in planning and decision-making processes. all neighbourhoods have the things that matter most.
Equity An Economy that Works for All
We will advance an equitable approach to planning, where Protecting and expanding areas for business and employment.
the benefits of growth and change are distributed across Adding more job space to neighbourhoods, and advancing
neighbourhoods, with particular attention to equity-denied accessible and equitable economic opportunities. Ensuring a mix
groups, so that everyone has the chance to thrive. of housing, jobs, shops, and services close to rapid transit.
Climate Protection and
Resilience
Restored Ecosystems
We will proactively plan for an uncertain future so we can
Creating streets for people to move around by walking, rolling,
withstand, adapt, recover, and thrive in the face of shocks like
biking, and taking transit. Supporting building methods that
earthquakes and climate change impacts, and reduce stresses
reduce energy consumption. Protecting and making space for
like affordability and inequities.
nature.
Photos top to bottom: Main Street; Commercial Street cafe; Vancouver beach (Source: City of Vancouver)
26 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 27
Main Street (Source: City of Vancouver)
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
Overview4. GETTING TO 5. VANCOUVER ODP AT A GLANCE
OUR BIG IDEAS Official Development Plan structure
The ODP is organized and structured in the following way:
Collective impact
Three Foundational Principles: Reconciliation, Policy Areas: Policy areas underpin the overall
Equity, and Resilience are included as foundational land use vision and cover key city-building topics.
The people of Vancouver have set an
principles in the ODP. This chapter makes Each policy area consists of a vision statement, key
extraordinary Vision built on a foundation
commitments to these principles, in the form of directions, and policies to help realize the directions
of aspirational principles and Big Ideas.
actions that the City will work towards taking. and advance the three Foundational Principles and Reaching this ambitious future will require the
These principles are central to the ODP and are three Big Ideas.
commitment and dedication of all the City’s
woven throughout and build on approved Council
stakeholders, from senior governments, non-
Implementation: This chapter describes the various
direction. Icons indicate where policies advance the
profits, and businesses, to neighbourhood
pathways for the realization of the vision of the
foundational principles.
groups and residents. Solutions that deliver
ODP, including through a combination of city-led
childcare, affordable housing, schools, climate
Big Ideas: Three Big Ideas are the main aspirations policy development and action, and managing
action strategies, transit, and supports for public
for the ODP. They do not have their own distinct development to ensure that it is consistent with the
health rely on the partnerships and investment
policy section in the ODP; however, they guide and Plan.
of other government agencies and non-profit
are supported by many of the policies throughout
providers. Artistic, cultural, educational, and Appendices: The appendices form part of the ODP.
the ODP.
social services and benefits that enrich the These include the Regional Context Statement and
lives of our residents and visitors, will come Future Growth: This chapter presents the long a range of maps.
through collaboration and the dedication of the range land use vision for achieving the Big Ideas
artistic community, non-profits, philanthropic of the Plan. The Urban Structure Strategy in this
organizations, and volunteers. chapter will guide area planning and policy over
the coming decades. This chapter also presents the
Setting clear, realistic expectations Generalized Land Use (GLU) map with parcel-based
GLU designations conveying development potential
with fiscal responsibility
under current land use policies and regulations.
The ODP establishes clear land use direction
for a more affordable, sustainable, and livable Figure 7: Vancouver ODP structure
city. This will require upgrading and expanding
physical, educational, and cultural infrastructure
and services.
The future envisioned by the ODP will require
difficult choices to balance inherent trade-offs.
With limited land and resources, priorities must
be established with equity and reconciliation top
of mind, and the City must set clear and realistic
expectations for facilities, levels of service, and
the necessary funding required to meet the
needs of a growing, maturing city.
Choosing favourite places on a map as part of Vancouver Plan
engagement (Source: City of Vancouver)
28 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 29
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
OverviewPolicy and regulatory context
The City’s land use framework is structured in the following way:
Metro Vancouver Regional Growth Strategy Additional Topic-Specific Strategies, Plans, and Policies: The graphic below illustrates Vancouver’s land
(Metro 2050): Metro 2050 guides growth across the There are many additional city-wide and topic-specific use framework, and the relationship between
region, and represents a shared commitment to plans and strategies, which provide greater detail than the Vancouver ODP and other plans, policies and
managing growth in a sustainable way, focusing growth the ODP in particular topic areas (e.g., Equity Framework, regulations which are not formally part of the ODP.
near transit, protecting regionally-significant industrial Housing Vancouver Strategy, Climate Emergency Action The circles indicate the level of detail; larger circles
and agricultural lands, and achieving additional Plan, etc.). The City also has a suite of topic-specific generally represent broader scope and scale, while
regional goals. policies, many of which are considered at time of smaller circles represent more specific, detailed
rezoning, such as the Tenant Relocation and Protection guidance and permissions. Inner layers must be
Vancouver ODP: Vancouver’s ODP provides the long- Policy, the Industrial Lands Policy, and the Sustainable consistent with layers above them, and together they
term vision for the City’s growth and development, and Large Sites Policy. guide land use. There are also additional topic-specific
establishes GLU designations and policies to implement strategies, plans, and policies which guide the City’s
the vision. The Regional Context Statement included Land Use Regulations: The Zoning and Development work and policy development.
in the ODP articulates how the ODP advances regional By-law regulates land use and development based on
goals at the City level, and confirms consistency with policy directions set out by the higher-level documents
the Regional Growth Strategy. and provincial legislation. Development and land use
is also regulated through other by-laws, such as the
Area Plans: Area plans must reflect and be consistent Subdivision By-law, the Building By-law, the Protection of Figure 8: Land use framework
with the city-wide ODP, but provide finer grained Trees By-law, and more.
direction for future land use, development and building
form. Some area plans are currently in the form of area- Permits and Licences: Development and Building
Metro Vancouver
specific ODPs, for example the Jericho Lands ODP. Permits are issued for development and alteration of
Regional Growth
land and buildings, in compliance with the regulations
Rezoning Policies: Rezoning policies establish where in the Zoning and Development By-law, Vancouver Strategy
there is policy to support rezoning applications, and Building By-law and other by-laws. Business licences are
what types of development would be policy-aligned. also issued in compliance with the Licence By-law and
Many rezoning policies are approved as part of area other regulations and policies.
plans to advance the shared land use goals in the ODP
and Plan areas (e.g., Broadway Plan, Cambie Corridor
Vancouver Official
Plan). Others, like the Secured Rental Policy and the
Development Plan
Transit-Oriented Areas Rezoning Policy, apply city-wide.
Area Plans and
Rezoning Policies
Land Use
Regulations
Permits and
Licencing
30 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 31
weivrevO
dna
noitcudortnI
1
traP
Part
1
Introduction
and
OverviewWalk for Reconciliation, Georgia Street (Source: Aaron Lao)
PART 2:
FOUNDATIONAL
PLAN
PRINCIPLES
FOUNDATIONS
Three principles provide a foundation
for the Vancouver ODP – Reconciliation,
Equity, and Resilience. These foundational
principles are woven through the ODP and
build on approved Council direction.
These foundational principles have
enhanced the planning process, directly
informed policy development, and serve
as a framework for implementation.
Alongside the commitments put forward
in the Vancouver ODP, work is underway
at the City as well as with partners and
communities, to continue advancing these
goals. As the work progresses and goals are
achieved, Vancouver ODP will be updated
and refreshed.
The following sections provide further
context on each foundational principle
and a description of the City’s broader
commitments to advance each.
Photos top to bottom: Gathering of Canoes (Source: Pablo Cesar Palma); Mural by Anne Marie
Slater, Scott Chan and Coleman Webb (Source: City of Vancouver); Jericho dock during a storm
(Source: City of Vancouver)
32 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 33
Part
2
Plan
FoundationsFigure 9: Connections between the Foundational Principles
Reconciliation
Reconciliation + Equity
Reconciliation + Resilience
The impacts of colonialism and its negative
The xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
effects on the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
(Tsleil-Waututh) Peoples have taken care
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations and urban
of the lands, creating strong and healthy
Indigenous Peoples are distinct. However
communities through their cultures,
both reconciliation and equity work are
laws, and stewardship, despite enduring
crucial to addressing systemic racism and
systemic oppression. To be a resilient
oppression. To move in the direction of
city, we need to respectfully uplift
equity, we need to advance the journey
Indigenous ways of being and knowing,
towards reconciliation as a priority,
and explore together how this can
recognizing Indigenous Rights and
inform policy and land use processes.
uplifting reconciliation efforts.
Equity + Resilience
Although natural and human-caused
disruptions and damaging events often
affect everyone in our community, the
harmful impacts are not experienced
Equity Resilience
equally by all residents. Neither is the
opportunity to recover. People who have
been systemically marginalized and/or
excluded are those most disproportionately
impacted. To advance our commitment
to equity, reduce risk, and improve
resilience outcomes for all, the City must
prioritize communities with the fewest
resources and greatest needs.
Tsleil-Waututh children learning about the Coast Salish practice of cedar bark stripping (Source: Nancy Bleck)
VANCOUVER ODP | 35
Part
2
Plan
Foundations
34 | VANCOUVER ODPContinue to strengthen relationships of mutual respect and understanding
1. RECONCILIATION
with Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations and urban
Indigenous communities, integrating Indigenous perspectives in planning
The City of Vancouver occupies the unceded territories against Indigenous Peoples. These colonial policies and decision-making processes.
of the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh have perpetuated the invisibility of the local Nations
(Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations on their lands, and limited inclusion in decision-
Vancouver ODP Commitments
(the local Nations) who have called this place home making and narratives about Vancouver. As a result,
since time immemorial. They have stewarded these Vancouver’s city-building efforts do not fully reflect 1. Support xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), supporting their needs to flourish, recognizes their
lands and waterways to ensure prosperity for future Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh language, Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil- place as significant contributors to a thriving and
generations. stories, and cultures. Waututh) Nations’ inherent rights and self- diverse Vancouver.
determination. Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-
Reconciliation aims to support the healing of past Waututh Nations have constitutionally protected 3. Respect and uphold xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
The word ‘unceded’ means ‘taken without consent’
harms and wrongs that have occurred, and continue rights, Aboriginal title, and interests within their Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
and refers to a process (of colonization) by which
to this day. The City of Vancouver seeks to strengthen unceded territory. This commitment means (Tsleil-Waututh) culture and heritage. This
settlers from Western Europe sought to replace
relationships with Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil- creating more relevant, respectful ways to support means increasing Musqueam, Squamish, and
Indigenous laws and take Indigenous land.
Waututh Nations and to ensure reconciliation is at the the local Nations in leadership roles and in land Tsleil-Waututh visibility and voice on the land by
core of city-building work. use planning processes. This includes supporting prioritizing and supporting cultural practices,
These lands continue to be occupied by settlers, and their collective rights and abilities to pursue their stewardship, and ways of knowing, as guided by the
Please refer to Part 1 Introduction and Overview for an
Indigenous Peoples face ongoing dispossession and political, social, economic, and cultural paths into local Nations and respecting their protocols.
introduction to the local Nations and their relationship to
colonial violence. Colonial practices have negatively the future. It means engaging and collaborating
present-day Vancouver. 4. Work collaboratively with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm
affected Indigenous Peoples, the land and waterways, with the local Nations when developing significant
(Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and
and non-human species that previously flourished in land use policies, and exploring opportunities to
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations to include
these territories. Discriminatory and racist policies Throughout the Vancouver ODP, this icon align strategies, plans, and principles. This requires
decolonizing and Indigenous practices in land
like the Indian Act, the Residential School System, and highlights which policies are advancing the City to work towards processes and timelines
use planning processes. This involves examining
segregated Reservations were all tools in the genocide reconciliation. that are respectful and aligned with the local
processes and procedures that perpetuate and
Nations’ protocols and interests.
maintain injustices and inequities, and work to
dismantle them. Doing so will make it possible
2. Recognize and support urban Indigenous
The City’s commitment to reconciliation for the City to come into right relations with
Peoples. This means creating more opportunities
xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
for urban Indigenous Peoples to participate in the
The City of Vancouver adopted the Reconciliation Heather Lands, involving new policies to advance
(Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) and
city, with access to opportunities in which they
Framework in 2014, with the long-term goal reconciliation.
urban Indigenous Peoples.
of strengthening relations with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm feel safe and have a sense of belonging. Engaging
The United Nations Declaration on the Rights meaningfully with urban Indigenous Peoples, and
(Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and
of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP, 2007) is a
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations and urban
comprehensive international instrument on the
Indigenous partners. At the same time, the City
basic human rights of Indigenous Peoples around
unanimously voted to acknowledge that the city is on
the world. It sets out a broad range of collective
the unceded territory of the Musqueam, Squamish,
and individual rights that constitute the minimum
and Tsleil-Waututh Peoples.
standards to protect the rights of Indigenous
Several streams of work confirm the City’s Peoples and to contribute to their survival, dignity,
commitment to reconciliation including its and well-being. It also affirms that Indigenous
commitment to implement: Peoples are free from discrimination of any kind and
recognizes the urgent need to respect and promote
• Truth and Reconciliation Commission Calls to the inherent rights of Indigenous Peoples.
Action
The City of Vancouver seeks to uphold these human
• National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered
rights in its institutions, policies, and practices. In
Indigenous Women and Girls Calls to Justice
2021, Vancouver created an UNDRIP Task Force
• Red Women Rising report recommendations in partnership with Musqueam, Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh Nations. Through a collaborative
These commitments are delivered through specific
intergovernmental process, a City of Vancouver
projects, programs, and partnerships. One example
UNDRIP Strategy and a five-year UNDRIP Action Plan
includes working with the Musqueam, Squamish,
were created. Work on implementing the Vancouver
and Tsleil-Waututh Nations partnership (MST DC)
UNDRIP Strategy and Action Plan continues.
on a number of major planning projects, including
the ʔəy̓ alməxʷ/Iy̓ álmexw/ Jericho Lands and the
Elder Amy George drumming during a healing circle (Source: Nancy Bleck)
36 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 37
snoitadnuoF
nalP
2
traP
Part
2
Plan
FoundationsAdvance an equity-based approach to land use planning, where the
2. EQUITY
benefits of growth and change are distributed across neighbourhoods, with
particular attention to mitigating disadvantages of equity-denied groups,
Many people face multiple barriers in accessing Current land use policies and processes reinforce so that everyone has the chance to thrive.
housing opportunities, facilities, and/or services due many geographic, economic, and social inequities and
to structural and systemic inequities based on race, create barriers that have disproportionate impacts on
Vancouver ODP Commitments
identities, abilities, or circumstances. Some are not able marginalized or excluded residents and communities.
to fully participate in aspects of public life including An equitable city will expand choice and increase 1. Integrate equity in all land use plans, 2. Expand housing choice in all neighbourhoods
social, economic, cultural, spiritual, and political agency for individuals and communities, with particular regulations, and processes. This means aligning to broaden diversity and inclusivity. This
activities. Others have limited access to housing, attention to equity-denied groups. Land use policies policies, decisions, and processes with the Equity means ensuring all individuals and groups can
jobs, transportation, greenspace, and other essential and practices will be assessed and intentionally Framework to help identify and remove barriers. participate in all aspects of public life, and have
amenities and daily needs because of where they can or transformed to ensure the benefits of living and This also means working towards eliminating affordable and secure housing options in complete
cannot reside. The rising cost of living has many people working in Vancouver are more equitably distributed. existing land use policies and regulations that neighbourhoods where daily needs can be found
assessing their ability to remain in Vancouver, as the perpetuate disparities and discrimination, and close to home.
gap between rich and poor continues to grow. developing accountability measures, including
monitoring and evaluation. 3. Minimize displacement. This means ensuring
growth and change provide opportunities for
existing residents, organizations, and businesses
to remain and thrive in the city. This requires
Throughout the Vancouver ODP, this icon that monitoring, evaluation, and accountability
highlights which policies are advancing measures be developed accordingly.
equity.
Map 1: Disproportionately impacted populations
Considerations for the data used in
this map: Disproportionately Impacted Populations is an
index showing the concentration of populations
Measuring inequities is not a experiencing systemic barriers. Variables used
straightforward task. This map can help us
in the index are visible minority, Indigenous
understand how inequities show up in the
city at a high level but there are limitations identity, rent burden, household income, single
The City’s commitment to equity and considerations that should be kept in parent family, limited English, and seniors.
mind when interpreting this information:
• The data is restricted to characteristics
The City’s Equity Framework (2021) reflects the City’s 2. Racial justice – understanding and explicitly
that are captured by the Census. This
commitment to equity work over the long-term. talking about the implications of race in any means that many important aspects of
identity (for example, gender identity and
Many existing and ongoing policies support the City’s given situation, and actively working to elevate expression, sexual orientation, disability,
or health status) are not reflected in this
equity efforts, including the Accessibility Strategy racialized voices and dismantle racism.
map.
(2022), Resilient Vancouver Strategy (2019), Women’s
• People who are part of systemically
Equity Strategy (2018), Reconciliation Framework 3. Intersectionality – recognizing how different equity-denied groups are not
homogenous. Maps cannot depict these
(2014), and the Healthy City Strategy (2014). forms of systemic discrimination—like racism, distinct characteristics, nor can they
classism, ableism, and sexism—intersect and depict people’s resilience and agency.
The Equity Framework defines equity as both an create compounding negative effects, and • There are factors that shape people’s
experiences that cannot be quantified
outcome and a process: designing ways to specifically benefit those who or mapped at all. This map depicts
characteristics of certain areas, which
are at the intersections and are being negatively
might not reflect the characteristics
• Equity as an outcome is the condition that would impacted. of individuals within these areas. For
example, some people will experience
be achieved if one’s identity no longer predicted
systemic barriers regardless of how
how one fares. 4. Systems orientation – recognizing embedded many people around them share
characteristics.
discrimination within systems, and redesigning
• Equity as a process is the replacement of policies, • Data from the 2021 Census is heavily
their rules and incentives, in order to lead to skewed by the impacts of the COVID-19
practices, attitudes, and cultural messages that
pandemic and associated support
more equitable outcomes.
reinforce differential outcomes based on identity programs. Income data from the 2021
Census reflects significant government
or fail to eliminate them. The Equity Framework reflects the City’s commitment income support programs, which Source: Statistics Canada, 2021 Census of Population; City of Vancouver
temporarily reduced low income
and obligation to upholding human rights. All situations and the ratio of housing
The City’s approach to equity involves applying the costs to income. Restrictions on social Disproportionately Impacted Populations First Nations Reserves
following four lenses to all processes and practices: municipalities have a legal duty to ensure that land interaction and movement may also
use planning practices are consistent with human have also impacted people's living High concentration Parks or Open Space
arrangements or their ability to complete
1. Indigenous Rights – upholding, recognizing, rights legislation. the census. Schools
and protecting inherent and constitutionally Despite these limitations, mapping Greenspace Outside Vancouver
inequities is a valuable exercise. It can help
protected Indigenous Rights. us understand how inequities experienced City boundary
by people might be addressed (or
aggravated) by policies and decisions made Low concentration
by the City, and it can enable us to assess the
effectiveness of efforts to address inequities
over time.
38 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 39
snoitadnuoF
nalP
2
traP
Part
2
Plan
Foundations3. RESILIENCE Proactively plan for an uncertain future so we can withstand, adapt,
recover, and thrive in the face of shocks like earthquakes and climate
change impacts, and reduce stresses like affordability and inequities.
Resilience is the ability of individuals, communities, Planning for resilience is central to the overall health,
organizations, businesses, and systems within a city to safety and well-being of residents, businesses, and
survive, adapt, and thrive in the face of shocks (an event the natural environment. A resilient city requires
Vancouver ODP Commitments
or disruption like earthquakes or heat waves) or chronic collaborative work and creative approaches across
stresses (an ongoing challenge like unaffordable departments and with community, industry, and 1. Enable communities to support each other in 3. Invest in safe and adaptive buildings and
housing, climate change, or social isolation). government partners. surviving, adapting, and thriving in the face infrastructure and improve access to basic
of shocks and stresses. This means building the needs for all. This means improving the safety,
Resilience is determined and influenced by many,
strength of community connections through land performance, and adaptive capacity of buildings
many factors - physical geography and the natural
use and urban design. This also includes making and infrastructure that we depend on (such as
environment, urban infrastructure and buildings, and
sure communities have the infrastructure they buildings, civic assets, social infrastructure, green
social, political, and economic systems.
need to deliver basic needs through unexpected infrastructure and natural assets, roads, sewers,
challenges. and drainage technology), ensuring our buildings
Many of the same assets that make Vancouver a
and infrastructure can provide safe, reliable
desirable place to live also pose unique challenges for
2. Reduce risk and better understand the city’s services today and in the future, under changing
resilience. The mountains and shoreline that support
hazards, risks, vulnerabilities, and strengths conditions.
biodiversity also expose the region to earthquakes and
related to our physical, social, economic, and
flooding. The Port of Vancouver and Pacific Gateway
ecological systems. This means proactively and
location create thousands of jobs and economic
collaboratively managing shocks and stresses,
growth, also exposing the land and waters to oil spills
Throughout the Vancouver ODP, this icon adopting new techniques and processes to improve
and hazardous materials accidents that threaten our
highlights which policies are advancing our data, anticipating trends, and capturing
ecological systems and health. The beauty and livability
resilience. emerging opportunities to build a better city for
of Vancouver itself make it a highly desirable place to
generations to come.
live, exacerbating housing affordability.
King tide at David Lam Park
(Source: Stewart McIntosh)
The City’s commitment to resilience
The City commits to building resilience in three Collectively these documents offer hazard and risk
priority areas: information that can inform land use policy and
urban design, reduce Vancouver’s risks, increase
1. Thriving and prepared neighbourhoods - to preparedness, and strengthen the social fabric and
help communities share knowledge, contribute community well-being.
to decision-making, and collectively prepare for
and recover from both shocks and stresses. In order to improve resilience, the City will continue
to learn from past shocks (like COVID and heat
2. Proactive and collaborative city - to achieve waves) and ongoing stresses (food inequity and
resilience through various collaborations, and social isolation) and develop integrated solutions that
change systems in the city that make people centre the needs of those most impacted to recover
vulnerable. from these challenges, and prevent future harm.
3. Safe and adaptive buildings and The City will also seek to learn from local Nations
infrastructure - to improve building who are leading the way on climate action, through
performance in case of an earthquake, and to initiatives such as Musqueam Indian Band’s
upgrade facilities including water services and environmental stewardship and climate action work,
flood prevention. Squamish Nation’s Climate Legacy Strategy, and Tsleil-
Waututh Nation’s Climate Change Resilience Plan and
The City has many strategies and policies that build
Energy Efficient Low Carbon Buildings Policy.
a strong foundation for resilience. These include
the Resilient Vancouver Strategy (2019) as well as The City will work to address root causes of risk,
Spaces to Thrive (2021), Rain City Strategy (2019), reduce chronic stresses, address ongoing inequities,
Climate Change Adaptation Strategy (2024), Healthy and learn from mistakes to recover in a way that
City Strategy (2014), and Earthquake Preparedness prevents future harm, and fosters a healthy,
Strategy (2013). sustainable, and thriving city for all.
40 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 41
snoitadnuoF
nalP
2
traP
Part
2
Plan
FoundationsMain Street (Source: City of Vancouver)
PART 3:
PLAN THREE BIG IDEAS
ASPIRATIONS
Three Big Ideas are aspirational ways of
growing and changing Vancouver to reflect
community priorities. These Big Ideas
provide guidance for growth and direction
for the development of policies within the
ODP.
Photos top to bottom: Main Street; Commercial Street cafe; Vancouver beach
(Source: City of Vancouver)
42 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 43
Part
3
Plan
Aspirations1 EQUITABLE HOUSING
AND COMPLETE
NEIGHBOURHOODS
• Ensure more affordable housing choices are
available to ease the housing affordability crisis.
• Transform low-density neighbourhoods to include
housing choice for all income groups and family
types.
• Leverage transit investments to support growing
neighbourhoods.
• Protect neighbourhood assets, like affordable
rental housing, local businesses, arts and culture,
and places for social gatherings.
• Create more complete, walkable neighbourhoods
by adding services and amenities like childcare,
parks, plazas, community facilities, and access to
affordable, nutritious food.
For related Policy Directions see:
Part 4 Future Growth: FG1. Urban Structure Strategy
Part 5 Policy Areas: 1. Housing, 2. Economy, 3. Climate, 4. Ecology, 5 .Transportation, 6. Childcare,
7. Community Infrastructure, 8. Arts, Culture and Heritage, 9. Parks and Public Space, 10. Utilities,
11. Food Systems, 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction
44 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 452 AN ECONOMY THAT
WORKS FOR ALL
• Reinforce Vancouver’s role as the regional job
centre by building on economic strengths and
welcoming value-aligned investment, workers, and
employers.
• Protect, expand, and support industrial/
employment areas, business districts, campus
institutions, and a broad and diverse base of jobs
and services.
• Encourage a diverse and accessible mix of local-
serving and small businesses and jobs in all
neighbourhoods.
For related Policy Directions see:
Part 4 Future Growth: FG1. Urban Structure Strategy
Part 5 Policy Areas: 2. Economy, 3. Climate, 5. Transportation, 6. Childcare, 8. Arts, Culture and Heritage, 9. Parks
and Public Space, 11. Food Systems
46 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 473 CLIMATE PROTECTION
AND RESTORED
ECOSYSTEMS
• Create people-first streets that are safe, attractive,
and support people walking, rolling, biking, and
taking transit.
• Support construction and building methods that
reduce energy consumption to progress towards a
zero carbon city.
• Support Indigenous, land-based cultural practices,
stewardship, and learning.
• Protect waterfronts and waterways.
• Make space for nature, protect habitat, and ensure
healthy, thriving ecosystems.
• Design infrastructure with nature in mind.
• Plant more trees in areas with limited tree canopy
to take advantage of all the natural benefits trees
provide.
For related Policy Directions see:
Part 4 Future Growth: FG1. Urban Structure Strategy
Part 5 Policy Areas: 3. Climate, 4. Ecology, 5. Transportation, 9. Parks and Public Space, 10. Utilities,
11. Food Systems, 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction
48 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 49Mount Pleasant Clock (Source: City of Vancouver)
PART 4:
FUTURE GROWTH
FUTURE GROWTH
Achieving the ODP’s vision for future growth
requires a unified approach to land use
planning that builds on the goals of existing
policies while establishing a clear vision for
the future. The Future Growth part of the
ODP is divided into two sections: the Urban
Structure Strategy and the Generalized Land
Use (GLU) designations. These sections work
together to guide the shape of Vancouver
over time, including the location, types and
intensity of different land uses to address
our needs and aspirations.
Top: Rapid transit bus (Source: Arzen Chan)
Bottom: Land use around Renfrew Station towards
downtown (Source: Klaudia Tufina)
50 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 51
Part
4
Future
GrowthThe Urban Structure Strategy provides guidance potential under current land use policies and
and direction on how the city will accommodate regulations. Permitted uses and development intensity
growth over the next 50-100 years. It establishes from existing policies and regulations are generalized
neighbourhood types to guide how different areas of into broad land use categories. The GLU designations
the city will develop over time. In areas where current are future-oriented, in that for many parts of the city,
policy does not yet reflect the visions outlined in the they reflect development potential that is enabled by
Strategy, the Strategy will serve as a guide for future policy but has not yet been incorporated into zoning.
policy development, including the creation of new The map is intended to show how the city may develop
area plans. The Urban Structure Strategy does not over the next 30 years.
enable rezonings and is not intended to reflect where
In some areas, the GLU designations already align with
there is rezoning potential across the city; instead that
the directions under the Urban Structure Strategy. In
information is represented in the Generalized Land Use
other areas, the GLU designations do not yet reflect the
section.
land uses or intensities envisioned under the Strategy,
The Generalized Land Use (GLU) designations indicating opportunities for future area planning and
serve a different purpose than the Strategy. The GLU policy development.
designations set and reflect the maximum development
Rapid transit at Oakridge MTC
(Source: Arzen Chan)
Figure 10: Relationship between land use policies and regulations
FG1. URBAN STRUCTURE STRATEGY
The Urban Structure Strategy provides a The Strategy evolved out of the Land Use
high-level guide for area planning and policy. Strategy that was developed as part of
It allocates growth and demonstrates how Vancouver Plan. It reflects community values
change within Vancouver’s neighbourhoods, and aspirations and will shape conversations
business districts, and industrial areas can around priority setting for City investment in
help meet the housing and employment the years to come.
Area Plan
needs of new and existing residents. It
As the Strategy is not parcel-based, it allows
proposes a balanced approach to urban
Urban Structure Strategy Area Plans and Generalized Land Use Zoning conveys use and for the flexibility to adapt to changing
development that will address goals of
guides area plans and policy Rezoning Policies designations reflect density entitlements on circumstances, such as new information on
livability, affordability, and sustainability.
development. provide detailed land use generalized development particular sites. Over time, transit infrastructure.
policy. potential based on existing zoning will increasingly
plans, rezoning policies, and reflect the maximum
regulations. development potential
The Urban Structure Strategy
outlined in the GLU as
properties are rezoned • directs new housing choices to low-density residential areas rich in amenities
either privately or through and adds opportunities for new amenities and services in areas that are currently
City-initiated processes. underserved;
• reinforces Vancouver’s role as the cultural and economic centre of the region, while
managing growth to prioritize the health, happiness, and well-being of residents;
The Urban Structure Strategy and the GLU map do not confer any development rights or entitlements, and
• encourages more sustainable and inclusive urban living by enabling affordable
development applications are expected to meet all applicable City policies and regulations.
housing and jobs within an easy walk or roll of transit;
• strengthens existing and supports new neighbourhood centres by incorporating
Missing Middle housing into clusters of local shops, flexible work spaces, childcare,
public spaces, and arts and culture venues;
• creates an integrated network of parks, public spaces, ecological corridors,
greenways for active modes of travel (walking, rolling, and biking); and,
• makes space for ecological functions at the site, neighbourhood, and city-wide scale.
52 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 53
htworG
erutuF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyFigure 11: City building layers
Neighbourhoods
Neighbourhoods come in many different
shapes and sizes, with different mixes of
uses. Embedding more housing choice,
jobs, services, and amenities in each
neighbourhood will better meet the needs of
residents.
See Neighbourhoods | Directions and N
Policies for details.
eig
h
b
o
u
rh
Homes o o
d
s
Today, housing opportunities are not
evenly distributed across the city. In some
neighbourhoods, the focus will be on
protecting and renewing existing affordable
housing. In other areas, emphasis will be H
o
m
placed on providing new rental options, es
social housing opportunities, and Missing
Middle housing.
See Part 5 1. Housing for details.
Economy
By strategically identifying areas to prioritize
Southeast False Creek (Source: City of Vancouver) intensifying, expanding, and enhancing
employment uses, we will ensure that we are
Eco
n
o
m
providing the job space to support a thriving y
city and more complete neighbourhoods.
Building Blocks of the Urban Structure Strategy See Part 5 2. Economy for details.
Transportation
The Urban Structure Strategy builds upon The Vancouver ODP considers how different High-quality walking, biking, and transit
key elements of the existing urban fabric, elements of the urban fabric relate to each networks and connections shape the urban
i
o
n
p
c
e
lu
n
d
s
in
p
g
ac
b
e
u
,
i
p
ld
a
i
r
n
k
g
s
s
,
,
a
s
n
t
d
re
i
e
n
t
f
s
ra
, p
st
la
ru
za
ct
s
u
,
r
n
e
a
.
tural o
Fi
t
g
h
u
e
r
r,
e
a
1
s
1
i
.
l l
T
u
h
s
i
t
s
r a
w
te
il
d
l e
b
n
y
s u
th
re
e
a
m
c
a
o
p
o
l
r
a
d
y
i
e
n
r
a
s
t e
in
d
e
co
n
m
vir
p
o
le
n
t
m
e
e
n
n
e
t
i g
a
h
n
b
d
o
f
u
o
r
r
h
m
o o
th
d
e
s .
b
C
a
o
c
n
k
n
b
e
o
c
n
t
e
in
o
g
f Tran
sp
o
O
se
f
p
te
a
n
ra
t
t
h
e
e
ly
s e
to
k e
se
y
r
e
v
l
e
e m
a
e
sp
n
e
ts
c i
a
fi
r
c
e
p
s
u
tu
rp
d
o
ie
s
d
e rather
approach for future planning. p
su
e
p
o
p
p
o
le
r t
t o
th
t
e
h e
e
i
c
r
o
jo
n
b
o
s
m
a
y
n
a
d
n
d
d
a
p
il
r
y
o
n
v
e
id
e
e
d
l
s
o
w
w
i
-
l
c
l
ost,
rtatio
n
More detailed policies and directions related healthy, and sustainable ways to get around.
than considering how they relate to each
to these and other layers can be found in their See Part 5 5. Transportation for details.
other. This approach can result in conflicts
respective sections.
between competing priorities and may miss
Ecology
opportunities to satisfy multiple objectives.
A system of protected Environmentally
Eco
Sensitive Areas and ecological corridors as lo
g
y
well as a blue green network will enhance
ecosystem function, biodiversity, and allow
residents to connect with nature in their daily
lives.
See Part 5 4. Ecology for details.
Equity + Resilience
Understanding our diverse communities, Eq
u
s
h
a
e
n
a
r
z
d
v
a
r
i
r
c
e
d
e
s
s
i
a
l
w
i
n
e
d
i
n
ll
t
a
l e
n
m
a
e
e
d
ig
n
t
h
i
o
t
b
y
m
o
g
u
o
a
r
r
p
h
e
s
o
,
i
o
n
a
d
c
n
l
s
d
u
.
s
e
iv
n
e
v
,
i r
e
o
q
n
u
m
it
e
a
n
b
t
le
a
,
l ity
+
R esilien
ce
See Direction FG1.10 Equity and Resilience and
Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction
for details.
54 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 55
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyNeighbourhoods | Directions and Policies Direction FG1.1: Direct Growth Strategically
Complete neighbourhoods include all the resources everyday activities like walking to get groceries. A city of Direct growth to optimize the unique assets and opportunities of Vancouver’s diverse
required to meet most residents’ daily needs within a complete neighbourhoods will help move us to a more neighbourhoods, such as transit investments, local shopping areas, and employment
short walk or roll – shops, restaurants, flexible work sustainable and resilient future. districts
spaces, internet, community services, housing, transit,
Figure 12 shows that in 2021, 58 percent of residents
schools, parks, and other features. These highly
Policies
lived within a 5-minute walk of shops and services. walkable neighbourhoods support better livability
The Urban Structure Strategy in the ODP envisions
through less reliance on cars, support better physical FG1.1.1 Refer to the Urban Structure Strategy and including built form, land use, density,
neighbourhoods becoming more complete over time,
health, and provide a range of housing options for a associated policies as a high-level guide for amenities, and transportation characteristics,
as different types of commercial uses and nodes are
diverse mix of people. These neighbourhoods also future area planning and city-wide initiatives are described in Table 1. Neighbourhood
integrated into a variety of neighbourhood types, such
provide more opportunities for social interaction influencing land use. The intended character guidelines are described in Directions L1.4 -
that in the future, 76 percent of residents will live within
as people meet and connect on the street, at their and function of these neighbourhoods, L1.10.
a 5-minute walk of shops and services.
favourite coffee shop, local playground, and during
Direction FG1.2: Daily Needs
Figure 12: Complete neighbourhoods and climate action
Enable more housing choice, jobs, services, and amenities in neighbourhoods
In 2021, In the future, throughout the city so residents can meet most of their daily needs close to home
58% of residents 76% of residents
were within a 5-minute walk will be within a 5-minute walk Policies
of shops and services of shops and services
FG1.2.1 Improve access to jobs and amenities by
ensuring alignment between transit service
and new housing, shops, services, and
amenities.
FG1.2.2 Strengthen existing neighbourhood
centres by providing opportunities for
more people to live nearby. Encourage
new neighbourhood centres where shops,
amenities, transit, and sufficient housing can
be located close together.
FG1.2.3 Allow more housing and community
Viva Robson Square, Bute at Robson street
infrastructure off arterial streets to reduce
(Source: City of Vancouver)
exposure to harmful noise levels and poor air
Although Vancouver already has many complete quality.
neighbourhoods, many still lack key components. Forty
Source: Licker Geospatial FG1.2.4 Mitigate the loss of ecology as
Proximity to at least First Nations Reserves percent of Vancouver residents live in neighbourhoods
neighbourhoods densify by retaining trees
40,000 sq. ft. of retail: Park or Open Space without walkable and rollable access to daily needs.
1 minute When people live close to their daily needs and there is Many neighbourhoods, while rich in amenities, offer and native soils where possible, improving
Greenspace in Other a safe, connected, and convenient system for walking, public realm ecology, and seeking to
few housing options limiting the number of people who
Jurisdictions
biking, and rolling (using a wheelchair or mobility integrate ecological function into the design
can live there. Policies contained in this section will
City Boundary aid), they are more likely to travel without a car. Less of new buildings.
provide opportunities for neighbourhoods to achieve
driving means less carbon pollution and better air
a better balance of these critical elements and will lead
FG1.2.5 Improve coordination of growth with school
quality. Achieving the climate goals under the Climate
to a more inclusive, sustainable, and socially connected
planning, capacity, and optimizing public
Emergency Action Plan requires increasing housing
city.
school sites as community-serving spaces by
10+ minutes options in existing neighbourhoods that are well-
working closely with the Vancouver School
served by amenities and providing needed amenities
Board and Conseil scolaire francophone.
in densely populated areas.
*Note: Figure 12 illustrates proximity to shops and services, whereas the Climate Emergency Action Plan target for Walkable, Complete
Neighbourhoods includes other “daily needs” like parks, schools, and community centres.
56 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 57
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.3: City Form
Create equitable, resilient environments that have distinct identities, encourage social
connections, and create better communities
Policies
FG1.3.1 Locating height and density. Allow for FG1.3.4 Mix of buildings. Allow for a mix of
higher forms of development close to rapid building types and tenures on each block
transit stations and local shopping areas and to provide opportunities for a diversity of
off busy streets. Avoid abrupt transitions at people and more eclectic and interesting
the edges of plan areas or across laneways neighbourhoods.
and streets.
FG1.3.5 Connected public realm. Consider a
FG1.3.2 Distributed pattern of growth. Aim for more connected network of parks, open spaces,
distributed (versus concentrated) patterns and walking/biking routes as an organizing
of growth in the vicinity of transit stations. element in neighbourhoods.
Rather than focusing high-rise buildings
tightly around station areas, look to deliver FG1.3.6 Form and character. Shape the form and
similar opportunities for homes and job space character of development through design
by allowing more low- and mid-rise buildings guidelines that promote great placemaking,
across a broader catchment. livability, and sustainability.
FG1.3.3 Distinct and diverse neighbourhoods.
Provide for a range of distinct
neighbourhoods at different scales to allow
people of all walks of life to choose the type of
neighbourhood that best meets their needs.
Consider this: Figure 13: Options for shopping streets
Allow for sunlight on
shopping streets
Allow for low- and moderate-
income households to live on
quiet, green leafy streets
Provide a more distributed,
versus focused,
neighbourhood pattern Shopping Street
Rather than this:
Tall buildings that shade
shopping streets
Low- and moderate-income
households restricted to
busy arterial streets
More focused, versus
distributed, neighbourhood
Shopping Street
pattern
Museum of Vancouver and West End buidlings
(Source: City of Vancouver)
58 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 59
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyUrban Structure Strategy Networks and Systems Map 2: Urban Structure Strategy
Key transportation and ecological elements that must be
considered as the city grows.
The Urban Structure Strategy conceptually illustrates
the type and intensity of change envisioned across the
Transit
city, to be implemented through more detailed area
Existing Rapid Transit: High capacity, fast and
planning and policy development. In some areas, the
frequent transit that operates on dedicated or grade-
Strategy reflects existing policy appropriate to the
separated rights-of way.
urban context of an evolving metropolitan community.
In other areas, the Strategy provides guidance Existing Rapid Transit Station: A key hub connecting
for needed future policy development to improve the regional rapid transit network with multiple
housing choice and create more complete, inclusive transportation modes—such as buses, bike share,
neighbourhoods across the city. micromobility, car share, and ride-hailing—while
offering retail, services, public spaces, secure
bike parking, pick-up/drop-off zones, and links to
First Nations Reserves: The creation of First Nations Neighbourhood Type
greenways and transit corridors.
Reserves represents an early effort towards spatial Conceptually illustrates the type, scale, and intensity of change
See Part 5. 5 Transportation for more details.
segregation and control of Indigenous Peoples’ envisioned across different areas of the city.
movements. Local Nations have not signed a treaty
Major Transit Network: Principal centre of business, with the Crown, nor ceded or surrendered their lands Metro Core/Broadway: Principal centre of business,
employment, cultural, and entertainment activity for or rights. Today, Musqueam Reserve, located south of employment, cultural, and entertainment activity for
the city and region.
SW Marine Drive near the mouth of the Fraser River, the city and region.
See Part 5. 5 Transportation for more details.
is a small portion of Musqueam traditional territories See Direction FG1.3 for more details.
and is a community of over 1,300 members. Sen̓ áḵw, Ecology
Municipal Town Centre (MTC): Second only in
at the head of False Creek, is a small piece of what
regional importance to the Metro Core/Broadway Park, Open Space, or Greenspace Outside
was once Squamish Peoples’ settlement. It is currently
area, Oakridge MTC has excellent access to rapid Vancouver: Parks and open spaces include uses such
developing into a high-density urban community.
transit and will support a dense mix of housing, jobs, as golf courses, natural systems, and cemeteries.
High-Level Land Uses and amenities. The Vancouver ODP contains policies to enhance and
Guidance for future growth in key mixed-use, employment or See Direction FG1.4 for more details. expand parks and open spaces to meet ecological
major project areas. goals and the needs of the community.
Rapid Transit Area: Existing and future Rapid Transit
Existing High Streets and Commercial Hubs: Areas will grow to accommodate more employment Ecological Corridor: Naturally managed areas that
Local-serving shops and services are important uses and a wide range of housing options, including provide ecosystem services and connectivity across
anchors for the different Neighbourhood Types. rental and social housing. natural areas and ecological attributes. Include both
These existing commercial areas will be enhanced See Direction FG1.5 for more details. current and future opportunity ecological corridors.
and expanded to better support complete See Part 5. 4 Ecology for more details.
Neighbourhood Centre: Oriented around existing
neighbourhoods and a growing city.
local shopping streets, these neighbourhoods will Environmentally Sensitive Area: Lands that have
See Part 5 2. Economy for more details.
accommodate more housing choice in the future. ecological attributes worthy of special care to preserve
Industrial/Employment: Vancouver’s limited See Direction FG1.6 for more details. their natural state and function.
industrial/employment areas are primarily intended See Part 5. 4 Ecology for more details.
Village: These areas will add shops and services to
for production, distribution, and repair activities with
primarily residential neighbourhoods and add Missing
opportunities for office-based employment on upper
Middle housing nearby.
floors, hotels in areas well-served by transit, and for
See Direction FG1.7 for more details. This Land Use map conceptually illustrates
compatible arts or creative uses. Residential uses are
Vancouver’s future land use. It does not enable
generally not permitted on these lands.
Multiplex Area: Multiplexes will be enabled in all development applications or enquiries.
See Part 5 2. Economy for more details.
neighbourhoods across the city.
See Direction FG1.8 for more details. Area boundaries are illustrative and will be refined
Major Projects Sites: There are several major
through more detailed future planning work. The Plan
project sites within Vancouver. These master planned
Village/Neighbourhood Centre Overlap With Rapid reflects the same rapid transit corridors identified in
communities in progress are designed to provide a
Transit Area: Where a Village or Neighbourhood TransLink’s Transport 2050 plan; corridor alignments
range of housing types and tenures supported by
Centre overlaps with a Rapid Transit Area, will be refined with future transit planning and, if
shops and services, new infrastructure, and public High-Level Land Use Neighbourhood Types Transit Network Ecology First Nations Reserves
neighbourhood type will be determined based on needed, neighbourhood/corridor land use planning
amenities including parks, childcare, and community transit investment timing, station location, and more boundaries will be adjusted accordingly. Areas within High Streets and Commercial Hubs Metro Core/Broadway + MTC Existing Rapid Transit Station Park, Open Space, or City Boundary
and cultural infrastructure. Detailed planning detailed area planning. a Transit-Oriented Area (TOA) will be considered in the Industrial/Employment Rapid Transit Area Existing Rapid Transit Greenspace Outside Vancouver
and urban design policy will continue to guide
context of the provincial TOA regulations. Major Projects Site Neighbourhood Centre Major Transit Network Waterbody
redevelopment of identified major project sites.
Village Ecological Corridor
Full build out of the Urban Structure Strategy is not
expected by 2050. Multiplex Area Environmentally Sensitive Areas
Village/Neighbourhood Centre
Overlap With Rapid Transit Area
60 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 61
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.4: Metro Core/Broadway
Reinforce Metro Core/Broadway’s role as the principal centre of business, employment,
cultural, and entertainment activity for the city and the region
Policies
FG1.4.1 Housing. Protect and renew existing
affordable housing and expand supply
through reinvestment and intensification,
mitigating displacement, and allowing
residents to stay in their neighbourhood.
Metro Core/Broadway
FG1.4.2 Jobs. Intensify, enhance, and expand
jobs space to ensure the industrial/major
employment, major office, hotel, cultural, and
retail-commercial space required to support a
thriving local and regional economy. Examples of building types in the Metro Core/Broadway
FG1.4.3 Displacement. Prioritize supporting renter
households, artists, small businesses,
performance venues, and non-profits
to remain in Metro Core/Broadway
neighbourhoods.
FG1.4.4 Transportation hub. Enhance the Metro
Core/Broadway area as the region’s
Marine Building, Metro Core/Broadway, Vancouver
multimodal transportation hub and optimize
(Source: Michelle Pollard)
regional access as well as the movement of Multiplexes + Low-Rise Mid-Rise High-Rise
people and goods among key destinations. Townhouses 3-6 storeys 7-12 storeys 13-26 storeys
The Metro Core/Broadway area will continue to be 1-3 storeys
the urban heart of the city and region by providing a FG1.4.5 Public realm. Enhance a high-quality public
dense mix of housing and employment lands and uses, realm, including Broadway as a Great Street,
including most of the city’s office and hotel towers, in the Metro Core/Broadway area to support
large format cultural venues, and commercial uses. high-density living and working, public life,
The Metro Core/Broadway area includes many of social connections, and economic uses.
Vancouver’s oldest neighbourhoods with significant
FG1.4.6 Waterfront. Enhance the use, enjoyment,
community, cultural, and historic importance in the
and resilience of Vancouver’s public
region. While the Metro Core/Broadway area plays a
waterfront by ensuring that public spaces are
significant role in the region, it is also made up of a
resilient to coastal flooding and sea level rise.
collection of distinct local neighbourhoods that are
home to a diverse mix of people.
FG1.4.7 Ecology. Improve tree canopy, especially
in DTES and other areas that are currently
deficient, and integrate green space for
rainwater and urban drainage.
NSIT
A
FG1.4.8 Arts and culture. Expand opportunities
D
TR
for, and mitigate displacement of, arts
API
R
and culture space to support the largest
concentration of arts and culture uses in the
region.
Transect of Metro Core/Broadway - building height and massing
62 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 63
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.5: Municipal Town Centre
An inclusive, mixed-use centre with significant housing and jobs space, services, and
amenities
Policies
FG1.5.1 Housing. Continue to implement the Cambie
Corridor Plan to expand opportunities for
diverse housing options with an emphasis
on purpose-built market and below-market
rental and social housing off main streets.
Municipal Town Centre
FG1.5.2 Jobs. Significantly increase levels of regional
employment that will contribute to overall
vibrancy and vitality of the town centre core.
FG1.5.3 Local-serving shops. Expand the retail area
Examples of building types in the Municipal Town Centre
onto local streets, integrating new small scale
commercial spaces into neighbourhoods to
add vibrancy and convenience.
FG1.5.4 Connected parks and plazas. Seek to
ensure park spaces are connected through
enhanced walking routes that are pleasant,
comfortable, and safe for all. New urban
plazas and key community facilities will
Rendering of Oakridge redevelopment (Source: improve opportunities for social connectivity
Westbank/Henriquez Partners)
and combat isolation and loneliness.
Detached Multiplexes + Low-Rise Mid-Rise High-Rise
Housing/Duplex Townhouses 3-6 storeys 7-12 storeys 13-26 storeys
Second only in importance to the Metro Core/ FG1.5.5 Built form. Enable a variety of forms and
1-3 storeys 1-3 storeys
Broadway area, Oakridge is a regionally designated heights (generally up to 26 storeys, with
Municipal Town Centre with excellent access to rapid some higher buildings in strategic locations)
transit, parks, and amenities. This area has undergone to contribute to varied built form, on and off
a detailed planning process that enables a dense arterials.
mix of housing and employment uses supported by
FG1.5.6 Amenities. Explore ways to integrate
a high-quality public realm and amenities including
amenities such as public and non-profit
new park, library, and recreation space. The Municipal
childcare, community infrastructure, parks,
Town Centre will be a vibrant hub in the city that meets
and arts and cultural spaces in mixed-use
community, city-wide, and regional needs.
developments.
NSIT Existing
D
TR A park
API
R
Transect of Municipal Town Centre - building height and massing
64 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 65
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.6: Rapid Transit Areas
Reinforce vibrant, mixed-use neighbourhoods providing more opportunities for
purpose-built rental and social housing, childcare, community infrastructure, and arts
and culture uses, together with public spaces that allow people to connect
FG1.6.3 Jobs. Support significant levels of regional
employment by expanding employment
uses and preserving employment lands as
exclusively ‘jobs only’. Consider requirements
for ground floor retail-commercial with office
above near transit stations and explore
Rapid Transit Area
opportunites to introduce compatible
industrial uses.
FG1.6.4 Jobs. Enable mixed-use spaces such as
business centres, co-working spaces,
Examples of building types in Rapid Transit Areas
affordable incubator spaces, and arts and
culture spaces.
FG1.6.5 Built form. Aim for a more distributed
(versus concentrated) pattern of development
that allows for mid- to high-rise buildings
(generally 12-26 storeys, with taller buildings
in strategic locations) close to the station and
also off of main streets.
FG1.6.6 Built form. Allow for a mix of building types
Example of a Rapid Transit Area Detached Multiplexes + Low-Rise Mid-Rise High-Rise
and tenures on every block with heights and
(Source: Brisco Manufacturing Ltd.)
Housing/Duplex Townhouses 3-6 storeys 7-12 storeys 13-26 storeys
densities generally decreasing further from
1-3 storeys 1-3 storeys
the station.
Rapid Transit Areas are generally within a 10-minute
walk of existing or future rapid transit stations. FG1.6.7 Transit integration. Give consideration to Transit station
Locating jobs and purpose-built rental housing near greater heights and densities to offset the plaza
transit moves the city closer to a zero carbon future, costs and challenges of station-integrated
Greenway
is important for accessibility, and offers an economic development. Incorporate ample, quality
advantage for people who rely on transit as a lower plaza and public space enhanced by walking School and
cost transportation option. As more people move into and biking routes to connect people to the childcare
these neighbourhoods, high-quality public spaces and station area.
access to amenities becomes even more important.
FG1.6.8 Public realm. Provide space for public plazas
or open spaces adjacent to transit stations
Policies
and carefully consider adjacent built form
FG1.6.1 Housing. Protect and renew existing to allow adequate solar access and active
affordable housing, and expand opportunities frontages. NSIT Existing
for diverse housing options with an emphasis
D
TR A park
on purpose-built market and below-market FG1.6.9 Nature. Seek to ensure parks, open space, API
R
streets, and private developments integrate
rental and social housing.
ecological function and provide opportunities
FG1.6.2 Housing. Enable ground-oriented Missing to enjoy nature with special consideration for
Middle housing options such as multiplexes durable landscapes that can thrive in high-
and townhouses. traffic areas.
FG1.6.10 Amenities. Explore ways to integrate
amenities such as public and non-profit
Transect of Rapid Transit Area - building height and massing
childcare, community infrastructure, and
arts and cultural spaces in mixed-use
developments.
66 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 67
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.7: Neighbourhood Centres
Enhance Neighbourhood Centres as successful, mixed-use neighbourhoods with FG1.7.8 Nature. Explore opportunities to retain trees
and preserve native soils wherever possible.
vibrant local shopping areas, green and leafy residential streets, a wide range of
Integrate ecological landscaping and function
housing options, and supportive amenities
into the design of new private developments.
FG1.7.9 Amenities. Explore ways to integrate amenities
FG1.7.2 Housing. Enable ground-oriented Missing
such as public and non-profit childcare,
Middle housing options such as multiplexes
community infrastructure, and arts and cultural
and townhouses.
spaces in mixed-use developments.
FG1.7.3 Jobs. Support city-serving employment
areas by providing a mix of minor office,
compatible light industrial, service, and retail Neighbourhood Centre
commercial uses.
FG1.7.4 Local shopping streets. To support the
success of local shopping streets:
Examples of building types in Neighbourhood Centres
a) Consider allowing commercial uses to
extend around corners onto quieter local
streets to encourage continuity;
b) Explore street closures or plazas to
enhance adjacent public spaces;
c) Encourage small storefronts and flexible
spaces to provide affordable space for
local-serving businesses;
d) Encourage the expansion of local
shopping streets to meet demand as
Local shopping area, Main Street
population grows; and
(Source: Alison Boulier) Detached Multiplexes + Low-Rise Mid-Rise
e) Explore opportunities to add compatible
Housing/Duplex Townhouses 3-6 storeys 7-12 storeys
light industrial or production uses such
Neighbourhood Centres come in many different shapes 1-3 storeys 1-3 storeys
as artist studios or maker spaces to
and sizes and are oriented around local shopping streets
provide a greater diversity of uses and
where people come together to shop, work, connect with
neighbourhood vibrancy.
friends, and access their daily needs. These shopping
streets are generally served by frequent transit routes FG1.7.5 Built form. Maintain lower building heights
and often have many small, independent shops that (up to 6 storeys) along local shopping streets
support a diverse local economy. As the city grows to maintain solar access, with higher forms
and changes, these neighbourhoods will include more considered in the immediately surrounding
housing choice, including secure options for renters blocks.
and low- to moderate-income families and individuals,
on quieter residential streets. Existing conditions FG1.7.6 Built form. Allow for the building heights
unique to each area, like amenity provision, variety of and densities necessary to deliver rental
shops and services, existing built form, and ecological and social housing while also considering a
NSIT
A
conditions, will help shape the overall future of these distributed pattern of growth that allows for NT
TR
neighbourhoods. smaller towers (around 12 storeys) generally Q UE
within a block or two of the local shopping
FRE
street.
Policies
FG1.7.7 Public realm. Explore opportunities
FG1.7.1 Housing. Create new housing opportunities for public open spaces, co-located with
for low- and moderate-income households community uses and/or local-serving retail,
with an emphasis on purpose-built rental and on quieter local streets.
social housing located off busy main streets
yet near transit, parks, schools, and other
amenities and services. Transect of Neighbourhood Centre - building height and massing
68 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 69
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.8: Villages
Strengthen low-density residential neighbourhoods by adding shops, services, and
housing choice to provide more complete, inclusive, and resilient neighbourhoods
Policies
FG1.8.1 Housing. Create new housing opportunities
for low-and moderate-income households
with an emphasis on purpose-built rental and
social housing located off busy main streets
yet near transit, parks, schools, and other
amenities and services. Village
FG1.8.2 Housing. Enable ground-oriented Missing
Middle housing options such as multiplexes
and townhouses.
Examples of building types in Villages
FG1.8.3 Shopping areas. Expand existing retail
clusters along streets less impacted by traffic
noise and pollution. Where existing retail
clusters do not exist, explore opportunities
to locate retail near community uses such as
schools, public and non-profit childcare, and
community infrastructure.
FG1.8.4 Shopping areas. Consider a minimum of
Smaller commercial uses in a Village two continuous blocks of retail to improve
(Source: City of Vancouver) business viability.
Detached Multiplexes + Low-Rise
Housing/Duplex Townhouses 3-6 storeys
Villages are oriented around a smaller collection of FG1.8.5 Built Form. Allow a variety of mixed-use, 1-3 storeys 1-3 storeys
commercial and community uses that provide local low-rise buildings and detached, and low-rise
jobs, daily needs, and community place-making housing up to 6 storeys.
and social connection. Adjacent residential areas
are primarily low-rise and predominately ground- FG1.8.6 Public realm. Co-locate public open spaces
oriented housing. New housing choice, in the form of with shops, services, and community spaces
multiplexes, townhouses, and low-rise apartments, to support local businesses and provide
will bring more people of different ages, incomes, opportunities for social connection.
and backgrounds into the community and will help to
FG1.8.7 Nature. Explore opportunities to retain trees
support local shops and services. Existing conditions
and preserve native soils wherever possible.
unique to each area, like amenity provision, variety of
Integrate ecological landscaping and function
shops and services, existing built form, and ecological
conditions, will help shape the overall character of
into the design of new private developments. NSIT
A
these neighbourhoods.
FG1.8.8 Amenities. Explore ways to support village- UE
NT
TR
Q
scale childcare, and community and cultural FRE
infrastructure.
Transect of Village - building height and massing
70 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 71
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.9: Multiplex Areas
Evolve Vancouver’s low-density residential areas to advance smaller scale Missing Middle
housing across the city. Respect the local character of neighbourhoods while adding housing
choice, local-serving shops and services, and home-based business opportunities
Policies
FG1.9.1 Housing. Expand single lot multiplex housing
options across the city’s lower density
residential areas.
FG1.9.2 Jobs. Support opportunities to add stores, Multiplex Area
shops, work from home options, home-
based businesses, and the informal economy
to help meet the needs of a growing
population. Explore new job space in single
developments, clustered, or co-located with Examples of building types in Multiplex Areas
community uses.
FG1.9.3 Built form and character. Allow primarily
smaller scale, ground-oriented residential
(1-3 storeys) and up to 4-6 storeys for rental
or social housing where enabled by policy.
FG1.9.4 Nature. Explore opportunities to retain trees
and preserve native soils wherever possible.
Integrate ecological landscaping and function
Multiplex building, Grandview-Woodland into the design of new private developments.
(Source: City of Vancouver)
FG1.9.5 Public realm. Deliver public realm
Multiplexes offer a new type of ground-oriented improvements to support social connection,
housing as a similar but more affordable and business activity, and enhanced ecological
sustainable option to single-detached homes. Multiplex function.
areas will also include small-scale mixed-use buildings
to provide more job space, and local-serving shops and
services. Enabling new housing options and uses in
these areas will help improve housing choice and build
a more equitable and resilient city.
From left to right: Multiplex buildings, Grandview-Woodland (Source: City of Vancouver); Norquay Village (Source:
City of Vancouver) and Strathcona (Source: MA+HG Architects)
72 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 73
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.10: Equity and Resilience Map 3: Equity and resilience composite under current conditions
Ensure future public investments are distributed more equitably among Vancouver
neighbourhoods and help reduce our risk from shocks and stresses
Uneven patterns of development and investment, This mapping exercise represents only one analysis
both public and private, have created an inequitable and is not intended to represent a thorough analysis
distribution of housing, jobs, shops and services, of equity or disparity. Rather, it is one indicator that
transit, amenities, tree canopy, and exposure to strongly points to the need to undertake a rigorous
hazards across Vancouver. These different patterns examination of the underlying root causes responsible
of development and investment are related to class, for the outcomes identified here. Policies contained
income status, race, ethnicity, immigration status, in the ODP should be used in tandem with other
age, gender, and other systems of power. Data- important policies, frameworks, tools and approaches,
driven, spatial analysis of these patterns improve such as the City’s Reconciliation Framework, Equity
understanding of the long-standing inequities and Framework, and Resilience Strategy. Analysis and policy
allow us to ask better questions, prioritize investment, on equity and resilience should be updated as our
direct growth and change, and address hazards and learning and understanding is deepened and data is
risk in a more equitable and resilient way. improved, and with consultation with the local Nations,
urban Indigenous Peoples, and other equity-denied
Equity and resilience are deeply interrelated and groups.
cross-cutting goals. Providing housing, educational
and employment opportunities to equity-denied Explaining the map
groups in all neighbourhoods across the city will also The results of this analysis roughly divide the city into
create more resilient communities. New development Opportunity Areas and Areas in Need of Resources.
patterns that offer affordable and secure housing,
access to services and daily needs, and safe and Opportunity Areas: These are areas with less housing
healthy urban environments will begin to correct the choice today and where new residents could be well
systemic discrimination of the past. supported by existing services and amenities and
might experience fewer hazards. These areas generally
Map 3 represents a high-level geographic analysis of have two or more of the following characteristics:
existing conditions used to assess equity and resilience
in Vancouver. It tells a powerful story that sets the • low concentrations of existing renter households; Opportunity Areas First Nations Reserves
stage for important work to come. The map is a • good access to existing services, amenities, and Areas in Moderate Need of Resources Parks or Open Space
composite of the following data sets chosen to assess other daily needs; and Areas in High Need of Resources Greenspace Outside Vancouver
key land use directions for equity and resilience: City Boundary
• low hazard risk, measured by air quality, extreme
heat, flooding, and earthquake risk.
1. An equitable housing system that prioritizes
housing for those who need it most Policies
Areas in Need of Resources: These are areas where
existing residents, many of whom are renters, are not
• Input: Concentration of renter households FG1.10.1 Promote a diversity of new housing types in
as well supported with amenities and services and/or
Opportunity Areas, including new purpose-
2. Equitable access to amenities and services might experience more hazards. These areas generally
built rental, social, and Missing Middle
have two or more of the following characteristics:
housing.
• Input: Proximity to transit, shops, and services
• moderate to high concentrations of existing renter
• Input: Neighbourhood service levels for FG1.10.2 Prioritize equity-focused risk reduction and
households;
parks, community centres, libraries, childcare, service improvement planning in areas of the
elementary schools, and secondary schools • poor access to existing services, amenities, and city with the highest unmet need that often
other daily needs; and face the highest risk to any hazards (Areas
3. Understanding and responding to physical areas in Need of Resources). A public investment
• high hazard risk, measured by air quality, extreme
of risk and hazard exposure strategy should prioritize public investment
heat, flooding, and earthquake risk.
and encourage private investment in deficient
• Input: Building seismic risk
areas through a range of new and existing
• Input: Exposure to extreme heat, air pollution, financial strategies and tools, such as the
and flooding portability of development fees.
74 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 75
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyDirection FG1.11: Reconciliation and Indigenous Rights
Advance Indigenous rights and reconciliation through city-building work
Policies
FG1.11.1 In partnership with the local Nations,
continue to implement the calls to action of
the City of Vancouver UNDRIP Strategy that
relate to land use planning, and update the
Vancouver ODP as needed as UNDRIP Strategy
implementation advances.
Drummers from the local Nations drum during the
UNDRIP Action Plan Unveiling Ceremony (Source: City of Vancouver)
The local Nations have led and partnered with the City
of Vancouver in creating a Vancouver UN Declaration of
the Rights of Indigenous People (UNDRIP) Strategy and
Action Plan. These plans show a path for coming into
right relations and centring local Nations and urban
Indigenous People in city-building work.
Path in Stanley Park
(Source: City of Vancouver)
76 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 77
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyTable 1: Neighbourhood type guidelines
Neighbourhood Type Role Housing Jobs Built Form Amenities Transportation
Metro Core/Broadway Reinforce Metro Core/Broadway’s role as the principal Highest density residential: intensification and renewal of Significant levels of regional employment: industrial/ Low-rise, mid-rise, and high-rise multi-unit buildings Public and non-profit childcare Regional and city-serving transportation hub: transit,
centre of business, employment, cultural, and purpose-built rental, and social and supportive housing major employment, major office, hotel, cultural, service major greenways, enhanced walking and biking routes,
*RGS: Metro-Core Consider building heights up to 30+ storeys in key Public park and playground
entertainment activity for the city and the region. to preserve affordability retail-commercial, large institutional and goods movement
Vancouver locations
Zero-waste community hub
Multiple large grocery stores or equivalent food retail
Consider heights between 13-26 storeys, in other parts
Regional and city-serving gathering and celebration
of the Metro Core/Broadway area
Regional and city-serving recreation, education, social, or
cultural venues
Regional and city-serving green space including the
seawall, waterfront parks, and Stanley Park
Food infrastructure
Municipal Town Centre Become a more inclusive, mixed-use centre with Higher-density residential: encourage purpose-built Significant levels of regional employment: industrial/ Low-rise, mid-rise, and high-rise multi-unit buildings, Public and non-profit childcare Rapid transit, frequent transit, major greenway
significant housing and job space. market and below-market rental, and social and major employment, hotel, major office, service, retail- generally up to 26 storeys connections, enhanced walking and biking routes, and
*RGS: High Growth Public park and playground
supportive housing close to rapid transit commercial goods movement
Municipal Town Centre 27+ storeys in strategic locations
Zero-waste community hub
Large grocery store or equivalent food retail
Minimum density: 60–200 Jobs + People/hectare
Large public plaza/gathering place
City-serving recreation, education, social, and cultural
facilities
Food infrastructure
Rapid Transit Areas Reinforce vibrant, mixed-use neighbourhoods providing Medium/higher-density residential: encourage purpose- City and some regional-serving employment: Low-rise, mid-rise, and high-rise multi-unit buildings Public and non-profit childcare Rapid transit station, frequent transit, major or city
*RGS: Frequent Transit more opportunities for purpose-built rental and social built and below-market rental, and social and supportive opportunities to add additional employment in the form generally up to 26 storeys Public park and playground greenway connections, enhanced walking and biking
Development Area housing, public and non-profit childcare, community housing close to rapid transit of minor office, industrial, service, retail-commercial 27+ storeys in strategic locations routes
Zero-waste community hub
infrastructure, and arts and culture uses, together with
Large grocery store or equivalent food retail
Corridor: 35-80 Jobs + People/hectare
public spaces that allow people to connect. Large public plaza/gathering place
Station Area: 60-350 Jobs + People/hectare
City-serving recreation, education, social, and cultural
facilities
Food infrastructure
Neighbourhood Centre Become a more successful, mixed-use neighbourhood Medium-density residential: encourage purpose-built City-serving employment: minor office, industrial, retail- Low-rise and mid-rise multi-unit buildings generally up to Public and non-profit childcare Frequent transit, major, city or neighbourhood
with vibrant local shopping areas, green and leafy rental, social and supportive housing, and Missing commercial, service 12 storeys greenways, enhanced walking and biking routes
Public park and playground
streets, a wide range of housing options, and supportive Middle options
Small grocery store(s) or equivalent food retail Minimum residential density: 40-60 People/hectare
Zero-waste community hub
amenities.
Public plaza/gathering place
Community recreation, education, social, and cultural
facilities
Food infrastructure
Village Strengthen low-density residential neighbourhoods by Medium-density residential: encourage purpose-built Neighbourhood-serving employment: retail-commercial Low-rise multi-unit residential and mixed-use buildings Public and non-profit childcare Frequent transit, major, city or neighbourhood
adding shops, services, and housing choice to provide rental, social and supportive housing, and Missing and services generally up to 6 storeys greenways, enhanced walking and biking routes
Public park and playground within 400m
more complete, inclusive, and resilient neighbourhoods. Middle options
Cafe, convenience food, and retail Minimum residential density: 40 People /hectare
Zero-waste community hub
Small grocery store(s)
Food infrastructure
Multiplex Area Strengthen low-density residential areas to enable Low-density residential: encourage purpose-built rental Neighbourhood-serving employment: Small scale retail- Primarily ground-oriented residential including single, Public park and playground within 800m Frequent transit, city or neighbourhood greenways,
smaller scale ground-oriented housing options housing and smaller scale Missing Middle options commercial and services duplex and multiplex dwellings enhanced walking and biking routes
across the city, responding to the local character of
Cafe and convenience food Up to 6 storeys for rental or social housing where
neighbourhoods while adding housing choice, local-
enabled by policy
serving shops and services, and opportunities for home-
based businesses.
*RGS = Regional Growth Strategy The actual types, locations of public benefits, amenities, and servicing in a given neighbourhood will be subject to detailed area planning processes and will respond to the local context, needs and available funding.
Modest flexibility in height will be considered in detailed area planning processes where reconciliation, equity, and resilience goals are substantially addressed.
Large sites that accommodate a variety of uses (e.g., residential, commercial, and/or institutional) and include community-serving uses such as social housing, childcare, etc. may have greater flexibility in built form where building
scale can be managed on site. Retail provision will be required if these large sites are outside a 10-minute walk of existing retail.
78 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 79
ygetartS
erutcurtS
nabrU
.1GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG1.
Urban
Structure
StrategyBuilding Blocks of the Generalized Land Use Designations
The City’s land use regulations and policies that guide
Figure 14: Building blocks of the GLU
development each constitute a building block informed the GLU
designations, and are outlined below.
Zoning Regulations
Regulations in the Zoning and Development By-law, as well as
Zoning
Regulations
several area-specific ODPs, establish a baseline for development
that is permissible in the city. These regulations specify the land
uses, heights, densities, siting, and design requirements that
apply to a property. Rezoning Policies - TOA
Area Plans and Rezoning Policies
Council may consider applications to rezone properties to enable
d
u
i
n
ff
d
e
e
r
r
e
e
n
x
t
i
o
st
r
i n
h
g
ig
z
h
o
e
n
r
i
d
n
e
g
n
.
s
C
i
o
ty
u n
la
c
n
il
d
h
u
a
s
s
e
a
s
d
t
o
h
p
a
t
n
e d
th
r
o
e
s
z
e
o n
p
i
e
n
r
g
m
p
it
o
t
l
e
ic
d
i es Rezoning Policies -
Area Plans
to guide rezoning applications, outlining the potential height,
View over Strathcona into Downtown density, and variety of uses that are supportable on a site when
(Source: City of Vancouver) certain conditions are met, such as the delivery of affordable
housing or public amenities.
FG2. GENERALIZED LAND USE Individual Site
Criteria
Rezoning policies can be geographically based, such as those
within area plans* (e.g., Broadway Plan, Cambie Corridor
DESIGNATIONS
Plan) and the Transit-Oriented Areas Rezoning Policy. These
The Generalized Land Use (GLU) designations Although the GLU designations are mapped
g
in
e
t
o
h
g
e
r a
G
p
L
h
U
ic
d
a
e
ll
s
y
i g
b
n
a
a
s
t
e
i
d
o n
r
s
e z
a
o
n
n
d
i n
s
g
h o
p
w
ol i
t
c
h
i
e
e s
h
a
ig
re
h e
a
s
f
t
u
le
n
v
d
e
a
l
m
o
e
f
n
in
t
t
a
e
l
n
la
s
y
it
e
y
r
Regional
Land Use
Designations
that policy enables on a site through the rezoning process.
provide a general overview of the maximum at the scale of individual properties, they do
Other rezoning policies that are not geographically based may
development potential under the City’s not conclusively provide the specific densities
also guide development potential (e.g., Mass Timber Policy for
current land use policies and regulations. achievable on individual sites. Specific details
Rezonings).
They capture the different land uses, on supportable density, height, and urban
development intensities, and (in some cases) design expectations are outlined in the Individual Site Criteria
building heights from policy and generalize area plans and rezoning policies, and where
Some sites contain underlying regulations that do not accurately
them into broad categories to quickly convey zoning is aligned with policy, in the Zoning and
reflect their intended uses under the ODP. In these instances,
the high-level land use intent for a property. Development By-law.
sites are individually classified in the GLU map under a particular
These designations and associated policy Collectively, these designations demonstrate GLU designation that better reflects the intended direction for
*Area Plans
directions will be used to inform development where housing and job growth can be that site.
and specifically to help determine whether accommodated throughout the city, while
Council has approved area
For example, parks and public school sites may have zoning
an application to develop a site is consistent ensuring sufficient protections are in place
plans for various parts of the city.
that is more permissive than the ODP’s intended direction for
with the ODP. Rezoning applications that are for natural systems, parks, and important
those sites. In those cases, the GLU designation reflects the ODP
not consistent with the GLU designations and community-serving uses. When mapped While the GLU designations reflect the
intent for those sites instead of the underlying zoning. In these
policies cannot be considered without an ODP across the city, the GLU designations general intent of underlying policies, area
examples, parks are designated as “Parks and Open Space”, and
amendment. Amendment applications may or indicate enough capacity to exceed the plans provide highly detailed land use
schools are designated as “Institutional”.
may not be supportable by the City. City’s estimated 20-year housing need, as direction. This means that the maximum
prescribed by the provincial government. height achievable on a site may be less
Regional Land Use Designations
than the maximum height indicated in
Metro Vancouver designates land uses at the regional level
the GLU designation due to lower height
through the Metro 2050 Regional Growth Strategy. Regional land
maximums specified in the area plan. To
use designations that impact land development inform the GLU
fully understand a site's development
designations, including industrial, employment, agricultural, and
potential, it is essential to consult the area
conservation and recreation.
plans and any other applicable policies.
80 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 81
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsUnderstanding Generalized Land Use Designations Direction FG2.1: Generalized Land Use Policies
The GLU designations reflect the development policies that informed that designation. For example, Manage future growth in accordance with existing land use policies and regulations as
potential under current policies and regulations. Each sites eligible for rezoning under the Secured Rental Policy summarized within the Generalized Land Use map and its associated policy directions
designation indicates the land use(s), built form, and in may need to provide secured market rental in order to
some cases, building heights that are permitted within achieve the heights outlined in their GLU designation. Policies
that designation*. In areas included in the City’s Rental Housing Stock
Official Development Plan, redevelopments involving FG2.1.1 Rezoning applications that are contrary to a FG2.1.4 For rezoning applications that include closing
Certain types of land uses, such as parks and open existing rental housing must replace it (see the Rental site’s Generalized Land Use designation shall a portion of road to be consolidated with a
spaces, childcare facilities, and other community- Housing Stock ODP for further details). Additionally, be considered contrary to the ODP unless an project site, the land use designation of the
serving uses, are generally enabled across most areas property owners may be required to contribute towards exception exists for such an application as adjoining portion of the site shall be applied
of the city to support complete neighbourhoods. amenities and infrastructure when developing a site. provided in Table 3 and Policy FG2.1.6 or Policy to the portion of land that was formerly
Vancouver’s neighbourhoods include a diverse range FG2.1.7. dedicated road, without the need for an ODP
of community-serving uses of varying sizes and scales. Other site constraints may apply that limit height or amendment. In cases where sites with different
Local community facilities such as schools, libraries, the uses enabled, either due to unique site conditions FG2.1.2 Rezoning applications should align with designations are being consolidated across a
childcare centres, community care and assisted living or specific policy directions separate from the rezoning applicable area plans, policy statements, and portion of road, the designation of the closed
facilities, places of worship and recreation centres policies that informed the designation (see examples rezoning policies. See Appendix B for maps road will be split equally.
are woven into neighbourhoods throughout the city in Table 2: Supplementary Site Constraints). Table 2 is showing the boundaries of some of the City’s
and enabled within every GLU designation except provided for guidance only and does not represent all relevant land use policies and regulations. FG2.1.5 Development applications for sites that contain
Agricultural. Where zoning only enables institutional the constraints that may affect a site. uses or structures that are at variance with
uses on a specific site, the GLU map identifies such sites FG2.1.3 In-progress major project sites, as identified in the Generalized Land Use designation, shall
as “Institutional”. Some regulations or policies may enable heights above Map B5 (Appendix B), shall have their land uses be considered consistent with the Vancouver
what is enabled under the GLU designation. Table 3 and building heights determined through the ODP if the use or structure is a protected
The GLU designations do not create development rights lists these exceptions to GLU designations, where CD-1 rezoning process. Their GLU designation non-conforming use or structure under the
or entitlements and not all sites will be able to achieve additional heights are enabled for certain applications prior to the enactment of their respective Vancouver Charter.
the maximums outlined in their designation. Property without requiring a change to the GLU designation of CD-1 bylaws shall reflect the overall land use
owners wishing to develop their site should consider the site. mix and building heights per applicable area FG2.1.6 Any proposed development that conforms to
specific directions from the applicable regulations/ plans, policy statements, and area-specific regulations under the Zoning and Development
ODPs, but shall not be used for the purposes of By-law in effect for that site prior to the
determining consistency with the ODP. adoption of this ODP and that remain in
Table 2: Supplementary site constraints† effect, shall be considered consistent with the
Vancouver ODP.
• Solar access and public view guidelines and • Presence of Seniors Housing (see Seniors Housing
policies Rezoning Policy)
FG2.1.7 Rezoning applications approved in principle
• Hazardous lands (e.g., steep slope, groundwater, • Heritage protection (e.g., through Heritage prior to adoption of this ODP can be enacted by
floodplain, etc.) Designation By-laws, Heritage Revitalization Council after enactment of the ODP, subject to
Agreements, and Heritage Restoration Covenants) meeting their rezoning conditions, and are to
• Proximity to rail facilities
be considered consistent with the ODP.
• Rental protection policies and regulations (e.g.,
• Environmentally Sensitive Areas
Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy, Rental
• Recorded and unrecorded archaeological sites Housing Stock ODP, Single-Room Accommodation False Creek (Source: City of Vancouver)
• Environmental contamination By-law)
• Flight paths related to airports, aerodromes, and
heliports †The above list is provided for guidance only and does not represent all the
constraints that may affect a site.
Table 3: Height exceptions to GLU designations
1. Site where 100% of residential floor space is 3. Mass Timber Policy for Rezonings
allocated to social housing as enabled by policy (2024)
or regulation
4. Seniors Housing Rezoning Policy (2024)
2. Sites subject to a Heritage Revitalization
5. Below-Market Rental Housing Policy for
Agreement where a variance to height has
Rezoning (2019)
been provided in exchange for restoration,
preservation or protection of a building or 6. Zoning districts where the Director of Planning
heritage feature or Development Permit Board may increase
building height: C-2, C2-C, C2-C1, C3-A
*The Vancouver Charter requires the ODP to include statements and map designations on the approximate location and area of sand and gravel deposits that are suitable
for future sand and gravel extraction. Note there are no locations or areas in the city that are suitable for such activities.
82 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 83
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsMap 4: Generalized Land Use map
Generalized Land Use
Designations Map
Residential Multiplex – Ground-oriented residential Business Districts – Regionally significant lands for Unceded Territories: All lands shown on this map are the
uses, including single-detached homes, duplexes, job uses, including major office, healthcare, civic, hotel, unceded and ancestral homelands of the hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm
The Generalized Land Use (GLU) map shows the townhouses, row-houses, and multiplexes up to tourism, entertainment, and cultural uses in a variety and Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh speaking Peoples, the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm
distribution of GLU designations across the city. 3 storeys. Compatible non-residential uses are of building forms, including high-rise buildings above (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
These designations and associated policy directions permitted. 26 storeys. Residential uses are not permitted except in (Tsleil-Waututh). The territory known as Vancouver is part of
provide a generalized overview of the maximum Residential Low-Rise – Low-rise residential certain limited circumstances. their traditional lands and includes recorded and unrecorded
development potential under current policies apartments up to 6 storeys or up to 8 storeys if Downtown Heritage Areas – Lands intended to archaeological and traditional use sites.
and land use regulations at the scale of individual located within a Transit-Oriented Area (TOA). Lower maintain their historic character and scale while
Note: Land use designations do not apply to First Nations Reserves. property parcels (see Direction FG2.1: Generalized density forms and compatible non-residential uses are allowing compatible new developments. Generally
Land Use Policies). permitted. allows buildings with a mix of employment activities
Residential Mid-Rise – Mid-rise residential and retail or other active uses at grade. Only certain
Together with the relevant land use by-laws and apartments up to 12 storeys. Lower density forms and types of residential uses are permitted, often in
policies that apply to the site, the GLU map will be compatible non-residential uses are permitted. conjunction with specified non-residential uses.
used to evaluate development proposals. Rezoning
Residential High-Rise 1 – High-rise residential Industrial and Employment – Production,
applications that are not consistent with the GLU apartments up to 26 storeys. Lower density forms and distribution, and repair activities with opportunities for
designations cannot be considered without an ODP compatible non-residential uses are permitted. office-based employment on upper floors, hotels near
amendment. rapid transit areas, and compatible arts or creative
Residential High-Rise 2 – High-rise residential
uses. Residential uses are generally not permitted.
apartments above 26 storeys. Lower density forms
and compatible non-residential uses are permitted. Institutional – Lands reserved for essential
community-serving institutional uses such as major
Mixed-Use Low-Rise – Low-rise, commercial or mixed-
hospitals, post-secondary campuses, government
use residential apartments up to 6 storeys or up to 8
facilities, and public schools. Residential intensification
storeys if located within a Transit-Oriented Area (TOA).
is generally not permitted.
Non-residential uses are required.
Parks and Open Spaces – Lands used for recreation,
Mixed-Use Mid-Rise – Mid-rise, commercial or mixed-
community gathering, and access to nature, including
use residential apartments up to 12 storeys. Non-
parks, golf courses, natural systems, and cemeteries.
residential uses are required.
Residential development is not permitted.
Mixed-Use High-Rise 1 – High-rise, commercial or
Destination Venue Districts – Areas that serve a
mixed-use residential apartments up to 26 storeys.
specialized purpose, such as event centres, arenas, or
Non-residential uses are required.
exhibition grounds.
Mixed-Use High-Rise 2 – High-rise, commercial or
Agricultural – Agricultural and compatible uses
mixed-use residential apartments above 26 storeys.
permitted in accordance with the Agricultural Land
Non-residential uses are required.
Commission Act.
Overlays
Designations Outline
The City cautions against real estate
Downtown Eastside (DTES) – The DTES is home to speculation based on GLU designation.
Each GLU designation includes a vision and intent, Informational summaries of the GLU designations
some of Vancouver’s earliest neighbourhoods and The GLU map does not confer development
anticipated uses, and maximum building heights are shown on this page for convenience. Detailed
the historic heart of the city. Many residents are entitlements. New development will be
(where applicable). Main and complementary uses are descriptions for each designation are provided in the
impacted by systemic inequities including racism, expected to contribute towards infrastructure This map is to be read in conjunction with the
outlined using the land use categories from Section 2 subsequent section.
discrimination, poverty, homelessness, mental health
and amenities. GLU Designation descriptions on pages 86-96.
of the Zoning and Development By-law. Main uses reflect and impacts of trauma, substance use, and violence.
the predominant uses that can be anticipated under a Detailed neighbourhood planning policy for the
particular GLU designation whereas complementary area exists in the DTES Community Plan, including a
Residential Mixed-Use Other Designations Overlays First Nations Reserves
uses are only expected occasionally either as a portion of the neighbourhood that is identified as a
Multiplex Low-Rise Business District Downtown Eastside (DTES) Greenspace Outside Vancouver
standalone use or in conjunction with the main uses. Community-Based Development Area, which has a
An additional partial storey for common rooftop high concentration of critical community assets. Low-Rise Mid-Rise Industrial and Employment First Shaughnessy District (FSD) City Boundary
amenity space shall not be considered an additional First Shaughnessy District (FSD) – Lands within FSD Mid-Rise High-Rise 1 Institutional
storey for the purposes of determining building height. are designated as a Heritage Conservation Area. High-Rise 1 High-Rise 2 Parks and Open Space
Where a development site includes two or more GLU Specific development requirements pertain to sites High-Rise 2 Agricultural
designations within its boundaries, the uses and within FSD that aim to protect the estate character of
Downtown Heritage Area
the neighbourhood.
building heights on each portion of the site shall be
Destination Venue District
consistent with the respective GLU designation.
84 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 85
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsResidential Designations
Residential High-Rise 2
Main Uses:
A range of residential tenures in • Dwelling
high-rise apartment forms over
26 storeys.
Complementary Uses:
Heights: Above 26 storeys
• Institutional
• Cultural and recreational
• Office
• Retail
Residential High-Rise 1
• Compatible service uses
A range of residential tenures in
• Utility and communication high-rise apartment forms up to
26 storeys.
• Compatible manufacturing uses
Heights: Up to 26 storeys
• Agricultural
Lands designated for residential uses are intended to
support a variety of housing types and tenures across
Building Heights:
the city. Permitted building heights and densities will
1-26+ storeys dependent on anticipated building
reflect the character and goals of each neighbourhood
typology (as outlined below). Residential Mid-Rise
as provided by Council-approved policies or land use
regulations. A range of residential tenures in
mid-rise apartment forms up to
Compatible non-residential uses are permitted
12 storeys.
throughout residential neighbourhoods to support
Heights: Up to 12 storeys
complete neighbourhoods.
Residential Low-Rise
A range of residential tenures in
low-rise apartment forms up to
6 storeys.
Heights: Up to 6 storeys (or up to 8
storeys if located within a Transit-
Oriented Area)
Lower density forms i Residential Multiplex
and complementary
Ground-oriented residential
non-residential use are
uses including single-detached
permitted in all areas
homes, duplexes, townhouses,
designated as Residential
row-houses, infill housing, and
multiplexes.
Heights: 1-3 storeys
86 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 87
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsMixed-Use Designations
Mixed-Use High-Rise 2
Commercial buildings or mixed-
Main Uses:
use apartments with a range of
• Mixed-use buildings with non-dwelling uses at residential tenures in combination
ground level and office or dwelling uses above. with non-residential uses in high-
rise buildings above 26 storeys.
Complementary Uses:
Heights: Above 26 storeys
• Institutional
• Cultural and recreational
Mixed-Use High-Rise 1
• Office
Commercial buildings or mixed-
• Retail use apartments with a range of
• Compatible service uses residential tenures in combination
with non-residential uses in high-
• Utility and communication
rise buildings up to 26 storeys.
• Compatible manufacturing, wholesale,
Heights: Up to 26 storeys
Lands designated for mixed-use are intended to transportation, and storage uses
support commercial uses and a variety of housing
• Parking
types and tenures in combination with non-residential Mixed-Use Mid-Rise
• Agricultural
uses. Mixed-use areas are often located along local and
Commercial buildings or mixed-
major shopping streets and may require continuous
retail/service uses at grade. Building Heights: use apartments with a range of
residential tenures in combination
1-26+ storeys dependent on anticipated building
Permitted building heights and densities will reflect the with non-residential uses in mid-
typology (as outlined below).
character and goals of the neighbourhood as provided rise buildings up to 12 storeys.
by Council-approved policies or land use regulations. Heights: Up to 12 storeys
Mixed-Use Low-Rise
Commercial buildings or mixed-use apartment
buildings with a range of residential tenures in
combination with non-residential uses in low-rise
buildings up to 6 or 8 storeys.
Lower density forms are permitted i Heights: Up to 6 storeys (or up to 8 storeys for mixed-
in all areas designated as Mixed-Use
use buildings located within a Transit-Oriented Area)
Residential
88 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 89
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsBusiness Districts Downtown Heritage Areas
Main Uses: Main Uses:
• Office • Retail • Office • Wholesale
• Service • Institutional • Retail • Cultural and
recreational
• Cultural and • Manufacturing
recreational • Institutional
• Service
Complementary Uses:
Complementary Uses:
• Compatible manufacturing, wholesale, and
• Transportation and storage
transportation, and storage uses
• Utility and communication
• Utility and communication
• Agricultural
• Parking
• Microdwellings (in Chinatown only)
• Dwelling uses, subject to restrictions and
only in certain areas (see respective rezoning • Senior supportive or independent living
policies) Lands designated as Downtown Heritage Areas include housing (in Chinatown or Yaletown only)
lands zoned as HA (Historic Areas) under the Zoning and
• Agricultural • Residential units in conjunction with certain
Development By-law. These lands include Chinatown,
non-dwelling uses
Gastown, and Yaletown, and are intended to maintain
Building Heights: their historic building character and scale while
Building Heights:
A range of building heights may be permitted, allowing for compatible new developments. Buildings
including high-rise buildings above 26 storeys. primarily contain a mix of employment activities Up to 8 or 10 storeys except where noted under
including office, light industrial, services, and creative the Downtown Eastside Rezoning Policy.
uses, with retail or other active uses at grade. Only
certain types of residential uses are permitted, often in
The Business Districts designation applies to conjunction with specified non-residential uses.
Vancouver’s Central Business District (CBD) and CBD
Shoulder, and the Broadway Uptown area to affirm
the regional role these areas play as key centres for
jobs space. It may also apply to areas that only enable
commercial uses. The CBD is the region’s premier
business and cultural district with major financial,
office, cultural, entertainment, and tourism activities
located within a transit- and amenity-rich area.
Broadway Uptown is Vancouver’s “second downtown”,
with regionally significant healthcare functions
(including the Vancouver General Hospital campus),
civic uses, and a high concentration of office, service
and retail uses.
Continuous retail/service uses may be required
at grade within the Business Districts. Residential
development is generally not permitted, except in
limited circumstances as outlined in the Downtown
Rezoning Policy and in the Broadway Plan for Uptown/
Cambie North Area C (FUCC) and Civic District (FCHD).
90 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 91
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsIndustrial and Employment Institutional
Main Uses:
• Manufacturing • Service
• Transportation and • Utility and Main Uses:
storage communications
• Institutional
• Wholesale • Office
• Cultural and recreational
Complementary Uses:
Complementary Uses:
• Retail (subject to certain restrictions)
• Office • Parking
• Cultural and recreational uses (limited to
compatible arts and creative uses) • Service • Agricultural
• Institutional • Certain manufacturing, transportation, and
storage uses
• Agricultural
• Utility and communication
• Parking
• Dwelling uses that are ancillary only to the
• Uses ancillary to the business on these
primary on-site non-residential use, limited to
properties
Lands designated as Industrial & Employment are • Dwelling uses - in limited circumstances on Lands designated as Institutional are generally dormitory style rooms
primarily intended for production, distribution,
sites identified in Map B6 of Appendix B* reserved for essential institutional uses that serve a Building Heights:
and repair activities with opportunities for office-
variety of needs throughout neighbourhoods. While
based employment on upper floors, hotels near Building Heights: Variable
many institutional uses are permitted in all areas of
rapid transit areas, and compatible arts or creative Heights and densities are outlined in applicable the city, lands designated as Institutional include major
uses. Residential uses are generally not permitted*. district schedules within the Zoning and hospitals, colleges and universities, public schools, and
Critical city- and region-serving economic activities, Development By-law. Additional height and density other major government facilities.
such as warehousing and last-mile distribution are may be considered under certain policies for
concentrated in lands near major highways and developments that include multi-level industrial Residential intensification is not permitted on lands
the Port. Urban industrial lands, particularly Mount uses. designated for institutional uses, except for dormitory
Pleasant, have emerged as a hub for high-tech and style rooms owned and operated by a campus
creative economy uses, including laboratories and film institution or other dwelling uses ancillary only to
and animation studios. the main use on the site. See Part 5 7. Community
Infrastructure, for more policies relating to Institutional
The Metro 2050 Regional Growth Strategy establishes
lands.
two separate types of employment-based land use
designations: industrial and employment. In Vancouver,
all Metro-designated industrial and employment
lands have municipal industrial zoning. As such,
the Vancouver ODP adopts one single Industrial &
Employment generalized land use designation for
Metro-designated industrial and employment land. For
more details on regional land use designations, refer to
Map B1: Regional Land Use Designations and Overlays in
Appendix B.
*The Metro Vancouver Regional Growth Strategy, Metro 2050, allows municipalities to consider limited residential uses on Metro-designated Employment Lands within
200m of a rapid transit station and located in a Frequent Transit Development Area or Urban Centre. These residential uses can be considered across the entirety of an
Industrial and Employment designated site if such a site is identified on Map B6 of Appendix B. The ground floor must be used for commercial and light industrial uses,
while residential uses (with an emphasis on affordable, rental housing) can be on upper floors. Suitability of residential will be carefully considered against site specific
conditions (e.g., soil, groundwater and ecological conditions, hazards considerations, etc.), adjacencies, and fit within the wider area (e.g., access, goods movement needs,
etc.). The list of considerations is not considered exhaustive and will vary by site. Further, adequate separation between residential and industrial uses will be necessary to
safeguard public health and air quality; this buffering will be accommodated on the residential site.
92 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 93
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsParks and Open Space Destination Venue Districts
Main Uses: Main Uses:
• Parks or playgrounds • Retail
• Compatible cultural and recreational uses • Service
• Cultural and recreational
Complementary Uses:
• Transportation uses (limited to the Central
• Compatible office, institutional, retail, and Waterfront)
service uses
• Utility and communications Complementary Uses:
• Works Yard
• Office • Parking
• Agricultural
• Institutional • Agricultural
• Dwelling uses that are ancillary to park uses
Building Heights:
Building Heights: Lands designated as Parks and Open Spaces include Lands designated as Destination Venue Districts serve Variable
lands used for parks, golf courses, plazas, and Variable a specialized purpose, such as event centres, arenas, or
cemeteries that provide vital recreational, cultural, exhibition grounds. These sites, typically government-
ecological, and social functions. These areas are owned, function as regional destinations for arts,
fundamental infrastructure in supporting Vancouver's tourism, entertainment, and other public events.
livability, health, and climate resilience. This designation
Sites with this designation are vital economic and
applies to existing parks and open spaces, as well as
cultural assets that enhance the city’s identity as
future parks committed through policy statements,
a global and regional destination. To preserve and
ODPs, CD-1 rezonings, or Council-approved parkland
strengthen their role, residential development should
acquisition.
be limited, avoiding conflicting land uses that could
Development within designated parkland is limited undermine their functionality and incrementally
to uses that support or enhance park and recreation reduce their footprint. Intensification, expansion, and
functions. Residential development is not permitted, modernization of existing uses is encouraged, as is
except for minor ancillary uses (e.g., small scale park improved accessibility to ensure these spaces continue
caretaker housing) directly tied to park operations or to thrive as hubs for economic activity and public
programming. enjoyment.
94 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 95
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsAgricultural
Main Uses:
• Agricultural
• Single-detached houses
Complementary Uses:
• Infill single-detached houses
• Dwelling or retail uses ancillary to agricultural
uses
• Parks or playground
Building Heights:
Generally, 2-storeys or less. Refer to RA-1 district
schedule for detailed development information.
All lands in the city that are designated as Agricultural
are also in the provincial Agricultural Land Reserve
(ALR). Provincial regulations protect these lands for
farming, and the underlying zoning intends to maintain
and encourage the semi-rural, equestrian, and
limited agricultural nature of these lands. Only uses in
accordance with the Agricultural Land Commission Act
and ALR regulations may be permitted.
Kensington Park
(Source: City of Vancouver)
96 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 97
snoitangiseD
esU
dnaL
dezilareneG
.2GF
4
traP
Part
4
FG2.
Generalized
Land
Use
DesignationsBustling Vancouver sidewalk (Source: City of Vancouver)
PART 5: POLICY AREAS
Twelve policy area sections are provided that cover key
POLICY AREAS
city-building topics and advance the three Foundational
Principles and three Big Ideas.
Figure 15: Policy Area elements
Policy Area
Key city-building topic covered
in the chapter.
Policy Area Vision Statement
Aspirational statement that
reflects the optimal desired
state for that policy area.
Connection to Existing Policies
Highlights of other policies,
plans and strategies that relate
to the policy area. For clarity, Map
these policies do not form part
Illustrates current or proposed facilities,
of the ODP.
amenities, and infrastructure where
particular policies apply or where
Policy Direction particular conditions exist.
Overarching statement that
expresses what needs to be Policy
done in order to achieve the Guides City-led work and informs
Policy Area Vision Statement. collaboration with partners at a city-
wide or area-specific level. For clarity,
Foundation Icons these policies may inform evaluation
of ODP amendment applications, but
Appears next to policies that
will not inform the determination
address each respective
of whether a rezoning application is
foundation.
consistent with the ODP.
VANCOUVER ODP | 99
Part
5
Policy
AreasMap 5: Housing opportunities
An equitable housing system incorporates values of
inclusion and diversity. It ensures secure and safe
housing and mitigates displacement while recognizing
the need for growth, meets the needs of, and creates
a sense of belonging for newcomers and existing
residents.
Protect and Renew Existing Affordable Housing
Areas With High Densities of Existing Renter
Households: Protect and renew existing affordable
housing by promoting reinvestment and
Family at home (Source: iStock photo)
intensification of rental and social housing that needs
renewal, minimizing displacement, and ensuring
residents are able to remain in their neighbourhoods
1. HOUSING when planning for growth.
Create new housing opportunities for very low- and
moderate-income households across the city through:
Vision: Vancouver has an equitable housing system that prioritizes housing for
Areas to Expand Diverse Housing Options: Expand
those who need it most. housing options with an emphasis on new purpose-
built rental, social and supportive housing off main
streets and near transit, amenities, and services.
Adequate housing is a fundamental human Secure housing options, affordable to low-
right. Everyone from low-income residents and moderate-income households, are
Missing Middle Housing Areas: Intensify areas
and newcomers, to seniors, young people, concentrated in only a few limited areas of
with ground-oriented Missing Middle housing and
and growing families, should have access the city. Conversely, low-density residential purpose-built rental housing, including townhomes,
to housing that is adequate, secure, and areas consume about 65 percent of the multiplexes, and other low-rise forms.
affordable. The existing housing system residentially zoned land while only providing
is not meeting the needs of Vancouver’s for approximately 35 percent of the current
current or growing population. It will require population (BC Assessment, 2025; Census,
partnerships from all levels of government, 2025; City of Vancouver). These amenity
community, and the private sector to address rich neighbourhoods offer very limited
needs and improve our housing system. affordable housing options. As a result, these Connection to existing
neighbourhoods financially exclude Vancouver
policies
The Vancouver ODP takes an equity-based residents who are limited in their access to the
approach to advance policies that prioritize goods, services, amenities, and quality of life The Housing Vancouver Strategy
housing for those who need it most. This that their more affluent neighbours readily (2017) is a 10-year Council-approved
includes more secure affordable housing enjoy. comprehensive housing strategy that
options near transit, parks, schools and includes key policies and actions, along
childcare, and off busy streets. It also includes To address this disparity, new rental and social with 10-year housing targets, which
buildings with support services, and that help housing will be enabled in all neighbourhoods. were updated in 2024. The Vancouver
foster cultural connections and community. Policies contained in the section also address ODP plays an important role advancing
Attention will also be given to developing preserving affordability in areas with existing the implementation of this strategy Protect and Renew Existing Affordable Housing Existing Rapid Transit Station First Nations Reserves
family appropriate rental choices and rental and social housing (see Map 5). through city-wide land use policies and Area to Expand Diverse Housing Options Major Transit Network Industrial/Employment
Missing Middle options, including affordable Collectively, these policies will result in more planning. Missing Middle Housing Area High Streets and Commercial Park or Open Space
ownership opportunities, so families can inclusive and affordable neighbourhoods Hubs*
Greenspace Outside Vancouver
choose to stay in the city rather than move to across the city.
City Boundary
the suburbs.
*High Streets and Commercial Hubs were identified in a consultant study as areas with existing retail-commercial space.
Through the Vancouver ODP, the City will seek opportunities to expand these areas over the long term.
100 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 101
gnisuoH
.1
5
traP
Part
5
1.
HousingDirection 1.1: Housing Need Direction 1.2: Geographic Equity
Plan for and accommodate existing and future housing need Ensure opportunities for inclusion of very low to moderate-income households and
diversify the housing stock across all residential areas
Policies Policies
1.1.1 Continue to update the Housing Vancouver 1.2.1 Adopt supportive land use policies and
Strategy every five years so that it: zoning to enable more diverse housing
a) Meets the provincially-mandated of all tenures across every residential
Housing Needs Report requirements; neighbourhood.
b) Identifies housing targets to help meet
1.2.2 Enable social, supportive, and purpose-built
existing and future housing need;
rental housing off major streets and near
c) Explores demographic-based housing
transit, parks, schools, and other amenities
strategies to meet diverse housing
and services.
needs, including the needs of Indigenous
Peoples, low-income households,
1.2.3 Enable more Missing Middle housing options
women, families including lone-parents,
in low-density neighbourhoods, including
persons with disabilities, racialized
Family at home (Source: iStock photo) Purpose-built market rental building, 1915 Stainsbury single-lot and multi-lot redevelopments.
communities, seniors, 2SLGBTQIA+, and
(Source: Martin Espina)
youth; 1.2.4 Improve multi-family housing options to
The city and region have experienced a decoupling of
d) Identifies equity-based geographic better meet the diverse needs of households,
incomes and housing costs, with low- and moderate- Housing suitable for very low- to moderate-income
housing metrics to measure progress; including for families with children,
income people most impacted by the widening gap. households is not equitably distributed across the city
e) Identifies short and long-term strategic intergenerational households, persons with
Vancouver has persistent homelessness, with over as most of the city is zoned for low-density housing
housing priorities; and disabilities, and seniors, through improved
2,400 people without a home in 2023, and many more that is not affordable to most households. Adding
f) Identifies implementation actions to building design and forms.
living in unsafe or inadequate conditions (City of more housing diversity in these low-density areas will
address strategic priorities, along with
Vancouver, 2023). With a growing population, limited enable more people of all incomes, ages, and family
timelines and ongoing monitoring and
increases in income, and not enough housing created types access to housing choice throughout the city,
evaluation.
in recent decades, these policies are developed to plan contributing to more inclusive, vibrant, and healthy
for and accommodate housing needs. 1.1.2 Work with other municipalities in Metro neighbourhoods.
Vancouver to promote affordable and diverse
housing types to meet regional housing
needs.
In 2019, the provincial government introduced a
1.1.3 Strengthen partnerships provincially and
new Housing Needs Report requirement for all BC
nationally to support delivery of funding
municipalities, later amended in November 2023
and programs to meet existing and future
through Bill 44. Every five years, municipal councils
housing need.
must receive a report including data and analysis of
local demographic and economic trends, as well as
an estimate of housing units needed over five and
20 years. The Zoning and Development By-law and Figure 16: Building types that allow for different tenures of housing
ODP must permit enough capacity to accommodate
Missing Middle Housing
the long-term 20-year housing needs. The directions
in this plan are well supported by the data and
findings from the 2024 Housing Needs Report, and
the Generalized Land Use designations of the Plan
provide sufficient room for growth to meet 20-year
housing needs. Future updates of the Vancouver ODP
will consider the most recent Housing Needs Report.
Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
Reconciliation Detached + Duplexes: 1-3 storeys Multiplex + Townhouse: 1-3 storeys Low-Rise: 3-6 storeys Mid-Rise: 7-12 storeys High-Rise: More than 12 storeys
Equity Ownership Housing
Market Rental Housing
Resilience Social + Supportive Housing
102 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 103
gnisuoH
.1
5
traP
Part
5
1.
HousingDirection 1.3: Homelessness Direction 1.4: Community Housing
Address homelessness by ensuring every person has access to permanent secure housing Significantly increase the supply of social and supportive housing and support the
with a range of diverse supports growth of the community housing sector
Policies Policies
1.3.1 Work with non-profit providers and provincial 1.4.1 Increase the supply of new social and
and federal governments to provide a diverse supportive housing through land use policy
range of housing options, emergency services, and zoning approaches (including City-
and supports to people experiencing and at initiated rezoning), financial incentives, and
risk of homelessness. streamlined approval processes.
1.3.2 Work with Indigenous partners to prioritize 1.4.2 Create stronger partnerships between the
services, supports, and affordable housing City and community housing sector and
options for Indigenous Peoples experiencing support the sector in capacity building,
homelessness and at risk of homelessness. including organizations that support specific
populations such as artists, racialized
1.3.3 Work with Metro Vancouver municipalities
communities, and urban Indigenous Peoples.
and the provincial government to develop and
implement a regional approach to addressing 1.4.3 Work with provincial and federal government
Person in the Downtown Eastside (Source: Lani Brunn) homelessness. MVHC Heather Place Social Housing Building partners to increase funding for social
(Source: City of Vancouver)
housing developments and for individuals on
1.3.4 Adopt supportive land use policies and zoning
The causes of homelessness are complex and can rental, income, and Persons with Disability
occur at any stage of life. People from equity-denied to ensure residents can access shelters, social The community housing sector is made up of non- assistance programs.
communities experience intersecting challenges and and supportive housing in neighbourhoods profit housing providers that own, develop, or manage
are overrepresented among residents experiencing across Vancouver. social, co-op, or supportive housing. They provide 1.4.4 Work with the provincial and federal
homelessness. Youth aging out of care are also affordable, stable homes for households earning low- government to accelerate the pace of
overrepresented due to gaps in support and ongoing and moderate incomes, and can serve specific needs. replacement of Single Room Occupancy (SRO)
systemic barriers. Government and community With rising rental prices, social housing has become hotels with self-contained social housing.
interventions are needed to ensure adequate policy increasingly important yet this housing makes up less
and resources are in place to address homelessness. than 10 percent of Vancouver’s overall housing stock.
Indigenous homelessness is not defined as lacking
a structure of habitation; rather, it is more fully
described and understood through a composite lens
of Indigenous worldviews.
Source: Thistle, J. (2017) Indigenous Definition of Homelessness
in Canada. Toronto: Canadian Observatory on Homelessness
Press.
104 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 105
gnisuoH
.1
5
traP
Part
5
1.
HousingDirection 1.5: Indigenous Housing Direction 1.6: Rental Housing
Work with Indigenous partners to support Indigenous housing models and wellness Become a city for renters that provides more secure rental housing options
and mitigates displacement
Policies Policies
1.5.1 Expedite Indigenous-led housing and 1.6.1 Increase the supply of new purpose-built
wellness projects by allowing flexibility in City market and below-market rental housing
plans and policies, approval processes, and through supportive land use policy and
regulations. zoning, financial incentives, and streamlined
approval processes.
1.5.2 Support Indigenous-led housing and
wellness projects through City-led programs, 1.6.2 Minimize displacement of renters, ensuring
and enable new Indigenous-owned housing. residents are able to remain in their
neighbourhoods when planning for growth.
1.6.3 Promote reinvestment and renewal of
existing rental housing stock without
Lu’ma Native Housing Society Social Housing (Source: Allison Lasocha)
displacement through City policies and
partnerships with provincial and federal
Equitable and culturally appropriate housing is extended families, space to accommodate cultural Family at home (Source: iStock photo)
governments.
foundational to the ongoing and evolving commitment and ceremonial practices, accessibility for those with
towards a City of Reconciliation. We will further support mobility restrictions and Elders, on-site childcare, and Vancouver is, and has historically been, a city of
housing options that foster Indigenous healing and social programs for tenants. renters. Rental housing is important to meet the needs
wellness, including adequate space for children and of a diverse population, is vital to a healthy economy,
and allows moderate-income households to stay in the
city. There is a significant shortage of rental housing in
Case Study: 1766 Frances St. Vancouver. With most purpose-built rental constructed
in the 1950s and 60s, much of today’s affordable rental
In 2017, the apartment building at 1766 Frances housing is in high demand and in need of renewal.
Street owned by BC Indigenous Housing Society
was damaged by fire. The Society is redeveloping
the site with a vision to support environmental
and social sustainability through affordable,
accessible, and high-performance housing,
serving Indigenous individuals and families. The
building will feature energy efficient Passive
House construction, a basket weave design
inspired by Coast Salish traditional practices, and
offer 81 homes ranging in size from studio to
4-bedroom.
A purpose-built space for Indigenous-focused
non-profit before and after school childcare
programming will be included on the ground
floor. The development also includes a sweat
lodge, outdoor play area, and raised planter beds
for growing traditional plants and medicines. The
building’s architecture, design, and landscaping
is incorporating Indigenous art, native plants,
and other culturally significant elements. This
building was financially supported by the City of
Vancouver, and BC Housing is the primary funder
of the project through the provincial Indigenous
Housing Fund (IHF).
Renderings of 1766 Francis (Source: GBL Architects and Brick Visual)
106 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 107
gnisuoH
.1
5
traP
Part
5
1.
HousingDirection 1.7: Speculation
Continue to address speculation and take steps to promote equitable treatment of
renters and homeowners
Policies
1.7.1 Seek to ensure new and existing housing
serves people who currently live and work or
intend to live and work in Vancouver.
1.7.2 Use City regulations and financial tools to
increase certainty in land use policy and
rezoning processes, discourage speculation,
and reduce upward pressure on land prices.
1.7.3 Work with federal and provincial partners to
understand and advocate for new measures
to balance tax and other financial treatment
of owners and renters.
Multi-family timber frame construction, Cambie Street
(Source: Aaron Lao)
In recent years, the City and Province have taken steps
to address speculation, including North America’s first
Empty Homes Tax and the City’s Short-Term Rental
regulations. Yet, rising ownership prices are increasing
the divide between who can own their home and who
cannot. This divide is worsened by senior government
tax and financial policies that privilege ownership over
renting.
Ground-oriented homes in East Vancouver (Source: Michelle Pollard)
108 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 109
gnisuoH
.1
5
traP
Part
5
1.
HousingFeature Topic: Multiplexes
Expanding multiplex options
across the city
i
FG1.9
1.1,
1.2
In October 2023, City Council approved Can fit on a single lot
zoning changes to add multiplexes across the Modest scale reduces need Multiplexes require a
for major infrastructure minimum number of
city as a new Missing Middle housing option.
dwelling units with 2 or
A multiplex is a small-scale townhouse project on a single lot.
FG1.9 more bedrooms to work
for families with children
Multiplexes allow more people to live on a single lot, offering a
Similar in scale to new and those downsizing from
more affordable and sustainable alternative to single-detached
houses and duplexes a detached home.
homes.
Missing Middle Housing refers to multiplex and townhouse
buildings that are between 1-3 storeys, and also includes low-
rise apartment buildings between 3-6 storeys. These housing
types increase choice, including ownership and rental options.
Expanding multiplex housing options creates more opportunity
to build smaller scale Missing Middle Housing in more
neighbourhoods.
Adding Missing Middle Housing
As part of the 2023 zoning changes, areas previously zoned
RS were rezoned to a new Residential Inclusive (R1-1) zone,
allowing for multiplexes up to 6 units per lot (or up to 8 units
for secured market rental developments). R1-1 also allows for
duplexes, single-detached houses and laneway houses. In 2024,
the Province established new minimum requirements for small
scale multi-unit housing for all municipalities, for which the new
R1-1 zone was already compliant. Further amendments to the
Zoning and Development By-law were made to expand multiplex
3.1
options to RT-7 and RT-9 zones, to fully comply with provincial
requirements. Opportunity to advance
green building design
These changes have helped the City meet a number of key
objectives by:
• introducing building designs that meet the needs of a range 10.3
of household sizes and types;
Neighbourhoods evolve
Reduce hard surfaces to
• allowing for greater design flexibility with fewer guidelines over time
improve water absorption
and conditional regulations so that it is simpler and faster to
get a permit;
• improving affordability by increasing the number of units
allowed per lot (allowing for the cost of land to be shared
over more homes) and enabling smaller unit sizes (reducing
the overall cost per unit); and,
• encouraging building designs that limit greenhouse gas
emissions from construction and manage rainwater on site
to reduce the need for sewer upgrades.
Images: Above: Concept sketch showing a future multiplex area. Numbers alongside images ( # ) indicate related policy direction(s).
Multiplex examples (Source: Farhan Hussain) See Part 4 Future Growth and Part 5 Policy Areas for more information.
Pipes (Source: Paula Huber)
Family at home (Source: iStock photo)
Rain garden (Source: Bryn Davidson, Lanefab)
110 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 111Areas for Intensification
Map 6: Employment area opportunities
Intensify employment, industrial, and commercial activity in
these areas:
Business Districts: These areas are important
locations for future job growth in office-based sectors
such as technology, as well as employment in tourism,
entertainment, retail, and service.
Industrial/Employment: Vancouver’s limited
industrial areas are primarily intended for production,
distribution, and repair activities with opportunities for
office-based employment on upper floors in areas well
served by transit. Residential uses are generally not
permitted on these lands.
Campus Institutional: Campus institutions in the
health care and education sectors are concentrated
in large hospital and college campuses and dispersed
smaller facilities. Residential uses are generally not
permitted on these lands, except for dormitory style
Commercial Street Cafe independent neighbourhood coffee shop rooms owned and operated by the campus institution.
(Source: City of Vancouver)
Areas for Expansion and Enhancement
Expand and enhance employment, light industrial, and
2. ECONOMY commercial activity in these areas:
High Streets and Commercial Hubs: Mainly mixed-use
with street-level shops and residential or office above.
Vision: Vancouver has an economy that works for all, providing space for Many of these areas serve important social, cultural,
and economic functions and will be expanded and
economic opportunities and support for local workers, employers, and
enhanced in the future. Planning for these areas often
entrepreneurs. requires balancing the need for goods movement and
loading with need for walking, biking, transit service,
and public space.
Vancouver is a globally recognized hub for Lack of affordable housing and childcare
Neighbourhood Employment: Neighbourhood
many sectors including tech, film/television, negatively impact businesses that struggle
Employment areas are mainly home to retail, personal
climate solutions, life sciences, tourism, and to hire and retain employees. We need to
service, and related sectors that serve customers
arts and culture. Vancouver is also home to support workers and innovation industries
on site. When businesses locate in residential
Canada’s largest port, two of the province’s (e.g., those related to the circular economy),
neighbourhoods, they generally need ground floor
largest business districts, and supports a while adding more living-wage jobs that are space, preferably on corners. Home-based businesses
robust retail sector with well-loved shopping accessible, inclusive, and easy to get to by are also found in these areas.
streets. All of these components contribute to walking, biking, rolling, or transit.
a diverse and resilient economy. Special Study Areas
Marine Drive and Knight Street: These arterials border
At the same time, many small businesses, the South Vancouver Industrial Area and are strategically
Connection to existing
artists, and non-profit organizations (NPOs) located to take advantage of road, airport, transit,
policies
struggle to find affordable or suitable space, water, and rail access, providing close connections to
and costs continue to climb. Protecting The Employment Lands and customers, suppliers, and employees. Future work will
current job spaces from residential Economy Review (ELER) (2020) was explore modernizing and intensifying these areas, and
determining an appropriate mix of uses.
encroachment, intensifying the use of existing a comprehensive research and
industrial lands, permitting more flexible work engagement process designed to Truck Routes and Rail Corridors: Manage and improve
spaces, and planning for new job spaces are inform the foundations of both the goods movement and rail traffic in cooperation with
all necessary policies that support a growing, Vancouver Plan process and the regional and gateway partners. Seek protection for Areas to Prioritize Intensification Areas to Prioritize Expansion and Enhancement Special Study Areas Other Employment Areas First Nations Reserves
central city. Opportunities for shops, services, Broadway Plan. It involved a review of rail corridors and work with the Port of Vancouver, Business District High Streets and Commercial Hubs* Marine Drive and Knight Major Project Site Park or Open Space
and employment within neighbourhoods are key economic issues and challenges in rail operators and other partners to advance grade Industrial/Employment Neighbourhood Employment Street Study Area Central Waterfront District School
also a focus of this plan. the city and forecasts of anticipated separation, assess long-term passenger rail and Truck Route
Campus Institutional Major Entertainment/Stadium/ Greenspace Outside Vancouver
freight rail infrastructure needs, and explore railyard
employment space demand to 2051. Rail Corridor Convention Centre
reconfiguration to improve the efficiency, capacity, and City Boundary
reliability for freight movements, while also mitigating Agricultural Land Reserve
impacts on the community.
*High Streets and Commercial Hubs were identified in a consultant study as areas with existing retail-commercial space.
Through the Vancouver ODP, the City will seek opportunities to expand these areas over the long term.
112 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 113
ymonocE
.2
5
traP
Part
5
2.
EconomyDirection 2.1: Regional Core Direction 2.2: Industrial/Employment Areas and Business Districts
Help Vancouver continue to thrive as the regional job centre by building on our Protect and expand industrial/employment areas, business districts, and campus
economic strengths and welcoming value-aligned investment, workers, and employers institutions, and the diversity of jobs and activities they support
2.1.2 Support Vancouver’s key industry partners Policies
and opportunities for innovation such as
2.2.1 Protect and intensify industrial/employment
film, music and creative industries, tech, life
areas to provide spaces for production,
sciences, tourism, climate solutions, and
distribution, and repair activities that cannot
transportation. Facilitate opportunities for
take place elsewhere.
meaningful Indigenous tourism and business
creation, including with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm
2.2.2 Ensure that transportation planning
(Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and
considers and supports the needs of
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations, (the local
industrial goods movement.
Nations), as well as supporting equity-denied
business owners. 2.2.3 Modernize and increase flexibility of
permitted uses in industrial areas and
2.1.3 Work collaboratively with the local Nations to
ensure no net loss of industrial development
identify opportunities for their frameworks
capacity within the city. Protect areas from
and worldviews to inform economic policy
infringement of non-compatible uses,
and planning. Great Northern Way Employment Area
especially residential.
(Source: City of Vancouver)
2.1.4 Advocate to senior government for legislative
2.2.4 Seek to ensure that any intensification or
or policy reforms to reduce the property
development of industrial lands proposed
tax burden on tenants occupying space in
Half of the jobs in the city occur in industrial/ within or near environmentally sensitive
underdeveloped commercial properties. This
employment areas, business districts, and campus areas responds appropriately to support the
Port of Vancouver (Source: City of Vancouver) could include a new split assessment model
institutions (Census, 2016; City of Vancouver). City’s overall ecological vision (e.g., Fraser
for property taxation (i.e., the ‘commercial
Industrial/employment areas provide space for River Floodplain, False Creek Flats) and
sub-class’ proposal recommended in 2019
One-third of all jobs in the region are located in production, distribution, and repair activities that coastal adaptation vision.
by the Intergovernmental Working Group),
are critical to the health and resilience of the city’s
Vancouver (Census, 2016). The city is projected to
or a similar solution that would allow economy and cannot take place anywhere else. 2.2.5 Remove regulatory barriers and ensure
maintain this regional share of the employment base
municipalities to apply a lower tax rate on Business districts and campus institutions serve employment space for arts and culture as
and continue to thrive in its role as the regional centre
unused development potential. as key locations for diverse employment in offices, well as industrial education and training in
for jobs and investment by continuing to promote
institutions, and hotels. Ensuring the diversity of industrial areas.
modernization, adoption of smart technologies, well- 2.1.5 Support the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority
employment in Vancouver requires protecting space
being, and cultural exchange. Vancouver will maintain Land Use Plan to aid industrial goods 2.2.6 Ensure capacity for growth in office space
for a variety of local-serving industrial uses that
a locally focused, globally connected open market movement and viability of logistical lands and and hotels in Business Districts such as
face pressures from encroachment of residential
that elevates the region by leveraging Vancouver’s infrastructure. Downtown and Central Broadway and
development and other incompatible uses.
competitive advantage.
support them with services and amenities
2.1.6 Work with partners to realize the potential Opportunities to enhance and intensify the city’s
such as childcare, daily needs such as
Policies of the Central Waterfront District as a business districts will be a key focus.
groceries, dining options, and an improved
transportation hub, tourism and hotel node,
2.1.1 Encourage diversity of jobs and sectors along public realm.
and employment area.
the livelihoods continuum to create economic
2.2.7 Identify opportunities to locate small-scale
resilience. Protect the local economy from 2.1.7 Develop long-term rail corridor strategies to
office uses to meet projected capacity needs
sector-specific disruptions and market shocks protect and improve regional rail networks.
(e.g., at rapid transit stations and major
by pursuing investments, advocacy, and Work with regional partners to connect the
intersections).
partnerships that attract and retain a broad Cascadia region through high-speed rail,
spectrum of economic sectors to match with a terminus station that has convenient 2.2.8 Support the intensification of campus
Vancouver’s diverse population. access to Vancouver’s city centre, and explore institutions in the health care and education
expansion of float plane services to provide sectors.
more interregional connections.
Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
Reconciliation
Equity
Resilience
114 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 115
ymonocE
.2
5
traP
Part
5
2.
EconomyDirection 2.3: Affordable Spaces Direction 2.4: Local-Serving and Small Businesses
Support and create affordable economic spaces to address displacement and foster Encourage a diverse and accessible mix of local-serving and small businesses and jobs
entrepreneurship in every neighbourhood that enable communities and culture to thrive
Policies Policies
2.3.1 Increase the supply of suitable and well- 2.4.1 Expand or connect existing retail-commercial
located work spaces through intensification districts and create new commercial areas
of employment lands and business districts. in underserved neighbourhoods to improve
the diversity and amount of small-scale
2.3.2 Balance space needs of local businesses with neighbourhood retail-commercial space, to
the needs of other economic sectors and meet the needs of a growing population.
companies of different sizes, particularly
IBPOC-owned businesses that provide local 2.4.2 Ensure the residential density needed to
job opportunities and access to local goods support local-serving retail, particularly close
and services. to shopping streets, to increase the local
customer base, support commercial area
2.3.3 Explore new strategies for co-location, success, and reduce development pressure
flexible work space arrangements, and on existing high streets.
alternate ownership models to increase the
Displaced business - Pronto coffee (Source: Graeme Jones) Chinatown shopping street (Source: City of Vancouver)
viability of commercial areas (e.g., preserved 2.4.3 Support retention, re-activation, and re-
in the public domain by way of a registered invention of local-serving stores for providing
Small independent businesses as well as non-profit agreement), and to address displacement of Vancouver’s local shopping areas serve as anchors for goods, services, and valued community
organizations (NPOs) and arts and culture sectors small businesses, city-serving industrial, arts the city’s neighbourhoods, offering a variety of shops spaces by supporting with more housing
risk displacement due to redevelopment, rising rents, and cultural uses, community-serving spaces, and services for residents, supporting local serving options, welcoming and safe public space
insecure tenures, and competition for space. Equity- and NPOs. and small businesses. The unique importance of elements, and other amenities such as
denied business owners are particularly affected. neighbourhood shopping streets such as Main Street childcare.
2.3.4 Seek to ensure affordable space for NPOs,
Policies listed here support the creation of affordable or Commercial Drive for their appealing village-like
social enterprises, and social service 2.4.4 Foster commercial district management
and diverse economic spaces to reduce barriers to character and diverse shops and cultural expression
providers. and indicator tracking. Explore variations
employment and starting a business, especially for cannot be overstated. Challenged by the rise and
to the Business Improvement Areas (BIA)
Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations, and needs of e-commerce and last mile delivery, these
2.3.5 Enable development of affordable model, especially for Indigenous and equity-
for equity-denied and newcomer communities. vibrant neighbourhood destinations will be supported
business centres and co-working spaces denied small business owners and cultural
by policies that enable new housing close to shopping
to accommodate the growing number of communities, to develop and implement
streets, amenities, and improved business supports.
consultants, freelancers, start-ups, remote business recruitment and retention plans and
workers, etc. in the marketplace, and by optimize business mix.
leveraging public facilities.
2.4.5 Assist local-serving businesses and
2.3.6 Explore regulatory changes to lower costs organizations to fill vacancies quickly and
when reusing older buildings and expand occupy vacant storefronts, while continuing
opportunities to support temporary use for to streamline permit approval and other
arts and culture, NPOs, social enterprises, regulatory processes.
food system businesses, and IBPOC-owned
small businesses. 2.4.6 Explore opportunities to add compatible
industrial uses such as artist studios or
2.3.7 Explore methods and expand planning maker spaces to neighbourhoods to provide
tools, policies, and incentives to mitigate a greater diversity of uses and support the
development impacts (e.g., relocation circular economy.
planning assistance) on existing commercial
tenants, particularly for Indigenous and
equity-denied groups.
116 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 117
ymonocE
.2
5
traP
Part
5
2.
EconomyDirection 2.5: Removing Barriers Direction 2.6: Shared Prosperity
Create a supportive business environment by updating City regulations to remove Advance accessible and equitable economic opportunities for Vancouver’s diverse
barriers and improve access to City services for everyone residents - prioritizing people most often excluded
Policies Policies
2.5.1 Improve the efficiency, speed, accessibility, 2.6.1 Seek to ensure a wide variety of markets in
and transparency of development the city to serve diverse types of vendors,
applications and business permitting customers, and residents across the
processes to support local businesses. livelihood continuum (e.g., large central,
Improve communication and translate neighbourhood-based, informal vending,
materials where appropriate to support formal street vendors, and food markets).
applicants from Indigenous and equity-
2.6.2 Advance work to define and identify Special
denied groups.
Market Areas (e.g., Punjabi Market) and their
2.5.2 Review elements of City land use by-laws connection to ethno-cultural community
and policies that create impediments to the areas. Develop programs to recognize and
right to earn an income as a foundation for secure their economic, social, and cultural
vending and survival work rights. importance as they serve and attract a city-
Federal Store Quebec at East 10th Avenue Creative office space (Source: iStock photo) wide, regional and/or ethnic customer base,
(Source: Farhan Hussain) 2.5.3 Modernize land use policy and building and do not rely on local residents alone.
regulations to facilitate emerging business
The City has a complex system of policies and models. Increase flexibility to accelerate Many Vancouver residents and workers across the city 2.6.3 Create policies, programs, and partnerships
regulations for land use and business operations application approvals. struggle with unaffordability, poverty, and inequality. that acknowledge and enable the informal
approvals, which can be onerous, time consuming, The 2016 Census found that 20 percent of Vancouver economy and jobs along the livelihoods
and costly to navigate. Policies in this section 2.5.4 Improve the City’s small business support residents lived below the poverty line. To advance continuum, with emphasis on low-barrier
address business-friendly supports for small to large functions through tools such as online accessible and equitable economic opportunities, the employment.
businesses, NPOs, arts and culture, and businesses resources, one-on-one assistance, an overall City should enable access to services and spaces to
owned or operated by people from equity-denied business liaison, and relocation support. meet people’s needs for healthy, happy, fulfilled lives, 2.6.4 Continue to implement the Downtown Eastside
groups. The City can foster entrepreneurship and while respecting the planet’s ecological boundaries. Community Economic Development Strategy
2.5.5 The Planning, Urban Design and (2016) and consider expanding Community
innovation by reducing barriers, updating and
Sustainability Department will explore Economic Development across the city.
modernizing City policies and regulations, streamlining
creating a dedicated “one-stop shop” for
approval processes, and providing easy, timely, and
NPO-led, Indigenous and equity-denied The livelihoods spectrum/continuum refers to the 2.6.5 Work with Musqueam, Squamish, and
accessible City services.
licensing and development applications, diverse range of income-generating and employment Tsleil-Waututh Nations to create economic
which recognizes the differing types and opportunities residents engage in to create their development opportunities that benefit their
levels of support that NPOs, Indigenous livelihoods, rather than taking a view of the communities.
communities, and equity-denied groups may economy that focuses only on 'traditional' forms of
need. employment and entrepreneurship.
118 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 119
ymonocE
.2
5
traP
Part
5
2.
EconomyFigure 17: Vancouver’s carbon pollution - trends and future targets
2007
2024 -50%
carbon
-18% by 2030 neutral
before 2050
negative
emissions
Downtown Vancouver skyline during summer wildfires (Source: Lloyd Lee) beyond 2050
3. CLIMATE
City-compiled emissions inventory prepared per the
City-compiled emissions inventory prepared per the Global Protocol for
Global Protocol for Cities (GPC) Basic protocol
Cities (GPC) basic protocol
Vision: Vancouver produces zero greenhouse gas emissions, while improving our
resilience to the changing climate
Although emissions across the city have declined by 17 percent since 20071, more should be done to protect the
climate and reduce Vancouver residents’ dependence on fossil fuels. In alignment with the findings from the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change2 (IPCC), Vancouver aims to reduce emissions by half by 2030, to
Our planet is warming and its climate is Every fraction of a degree of warming that can zero before 2050, and fall below “negative” after 2050.
changing. Vancouver is already experiencing be avoided will minimize the future impacts
increased air pollution from forest fires, on humans and the systems that support the 1 Vancouver Climate Emergency Action Plan Annual Report, 2021
deadlier heat waves, and destructive population. Systematic changes are already 2 United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Assessment Report
flooding. Burning natural gas in buildings, underway to reduce our carbon pollution and
gasoline and diesel in vehicles, traditional prepare for climate impacts. Accelerating the
building materials, manufacturing, and food changes, with equitable outcomes as a goal,
production practices all produce greenhouse will lead to a healthier, safer, more resilient,
gases (GHGs, or “carbon pollution”) that and better city for all.
contribute to this crisis.
This chapter covers direct climate policies. Connection to existing Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
While every person is impacted by climate Note that other chapters in Part 5 contain policies
Reconciliation
change, these impacts are not experienced policies critical to achieving the City’s carbon
Vancouver has developed many policies to
equally. Individuals and groups with pollution reduction targets and climate
address climate change. As of 2025, significant Equity
pre-existing health conditions, or those adaptation goals, particularly 1. Housing, 4.
climate-related policies include the Climate
experiencing diverse systemic barriers face Ecology, 5. Transportation, and 12. Hazardous Resilience
Change Adaptation Strategy (2024) and the
disproportionate impacts. Lands and Risk Reduction.
Climate Emergency Action Plan (2020), which
The neighbourhoods in Vancouver where provide important, complementary detail to the
people walk/roll to their daily needs are Vancouver ODP.
healthier, more affordable, decrease
dependence on driving, enable the use of
low carbon energy supply, and have a lower
carbon footprint per person. However, many
communities in Vancouver currently do not
have access to these benefits.
120 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 121
etamilC
.3
5
traP
Part
5
3.
ClimateDirection 3.1: Eliminate Carbon Pollution Direction 3.2: Climate Change Adaptation
Advance and accelerate actions to eliminate carbon pollution Accelerate actions to build climate resilience
Policies Policies
3.1.1 Reduce Vancouver’s community-wide carbon 3.2.1 Build climate resilience by undertaking
pollution (GHG emissions) by 50 percent actions in the Climate Change Adaptation
below 2007 levels by 2030 and achieve Strategy, including reducing the impacts of
carbon neutrality before 2050. climate hazards such as extreme heat, poor
air quality, drought, extreme rainfall, and sea
3.1.2 Advance the City’s carbon pollution reduction level rise (see Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and
goals through land use, transportation, and Risk Reduction for related policy).
buildings actions in ways that work with
and support equity-denied populations as 3.2.2 Advance natural climate solutions that buffer
detailed in the Climate Emergency Action Plan. impacts of climate change, sequester carbon
Specifically, advance the following: (capture, secure, and store carbon from the
a) complete, walkable neighbourhoods atmosphere), and improve biodiversity.
(see Part 4 Future Growth for additional
3.2.3 Collaborate with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
We only have one planet (Source: Lloyd Lee) details); Green rainwater infrastructure feature in Sunset Park
(Source: Shannon Mendes) Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
b) active transportation and transit
Vancouver’s physical layout and urban design affects (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations to explore innovative
(see Part 5 5. Transportation for Actions must be taken now to adapt to changes
how individuals can take action on climate change. ways to mitigate and adapt to a changing
additional details); Vancouver and the region are already experiencing
Complete neighbourhoods that provide safe and climate.
—including drought, flooding, sea level rise, extreme
convenient opportunities to walk, bike, and take transit c) zero emission vehicles;
heat events, and poor air quality, predominantly
for daily needs reduce vehicle dependence and lower d) zero emission space and water heating in 3.2.4 Focus on people and communities
from wildfires and ground-level ozone. It is
fossil fuel consumption. Advancing zero-emission new and existing buildings; disproportionately impacted by climate
important to note that climate change will continue
buildings and low carbon building construction also e) low-carbon construction practices and change and environmental degradation
to disproportionally impact equity-denied groups,
play a key role in reducing carbon pollution. materials; and, in area-based planning to understand
until adequate planning and investment improve the
cascading impacts and improve conditions.
f) renewable energy (see Part 5 10. Utilities current situation.
for additional details).
3.2.5 Consider public health impacts of a changing
climate in the development and renewal of
3.1.3 Report on progress towards carbon
By 2050 sea levels near Vancouver are expected to the built environment; continue to update
pollution reduction targets and related
rise by 0.5 metres. In the fall of 2021, severe flooding policy and regulations to ensure development
efforts to improve equity, and identify new
impacted almost every city in Metro Vancouver. The responds to, and helps mitigate air pollution,
opportunities to accelerate progress and
city will continue to experience the impacts from extreme heat, and flooding, particularly in
make it easier and more affordable to reduce
severe flooding as sea levels rise and the frequency areas with higher hazard risk.
carbon pollution.
of storm events increases. The City’s Climate Change
Adaptation Strategy outlines actions for addressing
sea level rise and flooding among other hazards. See
also Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction.
Vancouver’s Carbon Pollution in 2023
The Sea2City Design Challenge created a vision
Carbon pollution from burning natural gas to heat to guide urban development and ecological
buildings and hot water remains the largest portion 57% revitalization in the False Creek floodplain, a highly
of the city’s emissions as of 2023. Fossil fuels used natural gas use valued and constrained urban waterway in the heart
in vehicles contribute the second largest share of in buildings of the city. The local Nations contributed significant
our emissions. Electricity is low-carbon in British time and expertise to bring an Indigenous perspective
Columbia, so all the electricity use in buildings and to this work.
in electric vehicles makes up only a small portion. 3%
Emissions from decomposing waste in landfills also electricity 38%
make up just a small portion, as the Vancouver
gas and diesel
Landfill has a capture system in place that diverts this 3%
in vehicles
gas for other uses, such as renewable natural gas. waste
122 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 123
etamilC
.3
5
traP
Part
5
3.
ClimateThe Ecological Network vision map provides a strategic framework for Map 7: Ecological Network vision
protecting, restoring, and enhancing the city’s natural areas, which
offer a wide range of community benefits. By identifying key ecological
attributes and corridors for restoring connectivity, this map serves
as a guiding tool for land use planning, helping to ensure that future
development protects and enhances ecological integrity, strengthens
people’s access to and relationships with nature, and supports
community well-being through the provision of resilient ecosystem
services such as flood management, pollution reduction, and urban
cooling.
The Opportunity Ecological Corridor alignments are conceptual and
subject to change through future, more detailed planning. Design and
implementation will be determined on a site-by-site basis to ensure
consistency with park and other service provision needs, approved
policies, and current and future programming.
Environmentally Sensitive Areas (ESAs) are lands that have ecological
attributes worthy of special care to preserve their natural state and
function. See Map B7 (Appendix B) for a supplementary map of ESAs.
Downtown Vancouver against the backdrop of the North Shore
Aquatic ESAs: Features providing unique aquatic habitat
Mountains (Source: Alex Somzavodou)
including natural and constructed lakes, ponds, and wetlands.
4. ECOLOGY Foreshore ESAs: Areas within and adjacent to the riparian
interface along marine and estuarine shorelines, including
marsh, mudflat, intertidal, and beach habitat.
Vision: Vancouver has reshaped its relationship to nature and restored its Terrestrial ESAs: Natural areas that support a diverse native
community of animal and plant species, including coniferous,
ecological health
deciduous, and mixed forest, shrub, and modified herb habitat
types, as well as aquatic habitat features.
Vancouver is embraced by the shores of the Development and intensive human-based
Salish Sea, the delta of the Fraser River, and activities continue to erode the ability of Ecological Corridors provide connectivity across natural areas and
ecological attributes. These corridors are envisioned to support the
the expansive forests of the North Shore ecosystems to sustain the city and support its
flow of water, continuous growing space for plants, movement and
Mountains. Its location has enriched the communities. Land use planning that respects
refuge for a diversity of species, access to nature, and the provision
health and quality of life for residents and nature, preserves and restores adequate
of ecosystem services, such as urban cooling and flood control. They
supported the region’s rich biodiversity for space for ecosystems to thrive, and protects
follow natural drainage patterns through the blue green network,
thousands of years. Ecological systems are the land and waters can help reverse the
quieter routes along greenways, along shoreline and riparian areas, and
continually working to filter water, purify air, trend of environmental degradation and help through ESAs.
sequester carbon, regulate temperatures, restore the many community benefits that
house and feed wildlife, and deliver other they provide. Existing Ecological Corridors: Linear, naturally managed areas
life-sustaining services. However, natural that provide ecosystem services and connectivity across natural
areas and ecological attributes.
areas within the city itself are limited, not
all residents of Vancouver can access these
Opportunity Ecological Corridors: Opportunities to enhance
places, and ecosystem services have been
Connection to existing and create linear naturally managed areas that may provide
significantly diminished. policies ecosystem services and connectivity across natural areas and
ecological attributes.
Once rich with forests, streams, meadows,
Several policy documents support
and wetlands, Vancouver’s ecosystems have Parks: Parks provide much of the existing ecological assets
Vancouver’s ecological health,
been significantly impaired due to colonization in the city. Parks along ecological corridors may provide
including: the Urban Forest Strategy
and urban development. Many coastal opportunity for targeted habitat restoration to improve
(2025), the Climate Change Adaptation
wetlands and tidal marshes were infilled and connectivity and expand natural areas, in careful balance Environmentally Sensitive Areas
Strategy (2024), the Rain City Strategy Park or Golf Course First Nations Reserves
with other park objectives. Other open space within parks for
only nine kilometres of Vancouver’s estimated (2019), and the Biodiversity Strategy active and passive recreation provides some level of habitat, Aquatic Park or Open Space
105 km of streams remain today. Massive
(2016). The Vancouver ODP plays an particularly for insects, birds, pollinators, and small mammals. Foreshore
old growth forests were cleared, and wildlife Greenspace Outside Vancouver
important role in advancing this work, Terrestrial
species have disappeared as a result of the by integrating ecology into city-wide Watercourses: Includes natural streams and creeks formed City Boundary
Existing Ecological Corridor
loss of habitat. While Vancouver hosts over thousands of years ago, as well as constructed and restored
land use policies and planning.
240 parks city-wide, most are designed and streams, that provide a range of functions including natural Opportunity Ecological Corridor
planted for active recreation with little room drainage outflows, wildlife habitat, and fish spawning grounds. Watercourse
dedicated for natural ecosystems and nature.
124 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 125
ygolocE
.4
5
traP
Part
5
4.
EcologyDirection 4.1: Embed Ecosystems in Planning Direction 4.2: Make Space for Nature
Support the health of Vancouver’s ecosystems as an integral part of planning, urban Identify, rehabilitate, and connect ecological systems in Vancouver
design, and city building
Policies Policies
4.1.1 Integrate the ecological network in relevant 4.2.1 Build a healthy, city-wide ecological network
City plans and regulations, such as area plans through implementing the blue green
and district schedules, and include measures network, increasing the urban forest canopy,
to protect and enhance environmentally transforming road space, land acquisition,
sensitive areas. and naturalization of parks and other City-
owned public property.
4.1.2 Collaborate with the local Nations to
understand and support their ecological 4.2.2 Ensure natural areas support the health
priorities, their obligations to protect natural of Vancouver’s water systems and are
areas and water, and systems of applying integrated within the ecological network.
Indigenous science to land use planning and
4.2.3 Grow the urban forest canopy coverage
stewardship.
to 30 percent by 2050 through protecting,
4.1.3 Ensure equitable processes and outcomes managing and enhancing the urban forest.
Stanley Park watershed (Source: City of Vancouver) Rainwater wetland at Hinge Park, Olympic Village - an example of a
when planning for the expansion or creation naturally managed area (Source: City of Vancouver)
4.2.4 Use City tools such as zoning, servicing
of new ecological areas and green spaces.
and subdivision by-laws, and upgraded
Indigenous Peoples have been stewarding and
protecting natural areas for millennia through deep 4.1.4 Innovate and collaborate with partners in A healthy, functioning natural environment requires street designs to provide more space for
relationship with these unceded lands and waters, advocating for environmental protection and adequate space and connectivity for water, soils, permeability, quality soil, and increased tree
guided by their ancestral stewardship laws. The restoration in complex, inter-jurisdictional plants, and animals to thrive. The majority of the city’s canopy across the city.
City will continue to engage with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm areas (e.g., marine and shoreline existing natural areas are fragmented, isolated, and do
4.2.5 Strengthen policies and regulations to create
(Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ environments). not have sufficient separation and distance from urban
naturally managed areas on private property,
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations (the local Nations) to apply noise, light, and impervious cover. The policies below
with requirements and consideration for
Indigenous approaches to land use planning. identify city building approaches to strengthen and
restoration, to increase biodiversity city-wide,
expand Vancouver’s ecosystem by providing adequate
Policies should work towards a ‘whole systems’ space and connections for nature to thrive. and connectivity within natural systems.
approach to land use planning, including planning at
the watershed scale that incorporates the protection,
restoration, and maintenance of key ecological
features and areas.
Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
Reconciliation
Equity
Resilience
126 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 127
ygolocE
.4
5
traP
Part
5
4.
EcologyDirection 4.3: Protect Nature Direction 4.4: Provide Access to Nature
Protect ecosystems and manage growth around them Increase and ensure equitable access to nature
Policies Policies
4.3.1 Establish and strengthen guidelines, 4.4.1 Support and collaborate with the local
processes and requirements for Nations to improve access to the land and
environmentally sensitive areas to seek water to exercise their Indigenous rights to
protection and enhancement of ecological carry out cultural practices and harvesting
functions. opportunities.
4.3.2 Establish appropriate environmental 4.4.2 Ensure the ecological network is equitably
setbacks that limit development around distributed, and natural areas are accessible
important water bodies. to every resident in Vancouver, while
also balancing recreational, cultural, and
4.3.3 Explore the formation of water rights for environmental needs.
important bodies of water in Vancouver (e.g.,
marine conservation zones). 4.4.3 Create and co-locate spaces for learning and
stewardship within and around naturally
Dungeness crab in Howe Sound subtidal zone Mason Bee Project with Nature Kids, Jericho Park
(Source: City of Vancouver) 4.3.4 Protect urban soil to support the urban forest (Source: City of Vancouver) managed areas, with programs, partners,
and hydrological cycle. and educational opportunities for people to
learn about nature.
Vancouver’s ecosystems regularly compete with 4.3.5 Ensure all types of naturally managed areas Nature contributes to our physical and mental well-
other important land uses. As well, human activity have management plans and conservation being. This direction focuses on enabling access to 4.4.4 Integrate Indigenous ecological knowledge
has negative, spillover impacts that lead to further guidelines, developed and implemented in nature, without disturbing sensitive habitats, in low- and history where appropriate and with
environmental harm. Protecting nature requires collaboration with the local Nations. barrier, convenient, equitable, and accessible ways, permission, and provide opportunities to
strong and comprehensive tools to preserve areas both geographically (by distance) and socially (through learn about nature from diverse cultural
4.3.6 Develop and incorporate economic valuation
for ecosystems, manage growth around sensitive learning spaces and programs). perspectives, throughout natural areas.
of the ecosystem services that natural assets,
habitats, protect natural assets on private property,
habitats, and ecosystems provide into the
and implement robust management plans for naturally
City’s financial planning processes.
managed areas.
128 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 129
ygolocE
.4
5
traP
Part
5
4.
EcologyMap 8: Long-term transit network
Key elements of the potential future transit network in
Vancouver:
SkyTrain Capacity Relief Measures: Sections on
SkyTrain where upgrades (such as building parallel
lines, double tracking, or increasing service frequency
and train capacity) should be considered to meet
future demand.
Major Transit Network (MTN): High-capacity, high
frequency, fast, and reliable rapid transit service,
which could include heavy rail, SkyTrain, light rail, or
bus rapid transit.
Express/Interregional Transit: Fast and direct
services with limited stops and high speeds
connecting municipalities and regional areas.
Streetcar Alignment: Public transit using medium
capacity rail-based vehicles running in dedicated lanes
SkyTrain near Science World (Source: City of Vancouver)
or in mixed traffic. The streetcar is a City of Vancouver
policy initiative and is not included in any TransLink
plans or priorities, including Transport 2050.
5. TRANSPORTATION
Frequent Transit Network (FTN): Frequent, reliable
local transit service to serve all residents of Vancouver.
Vision: Vancouver’s transportation system connects people to jobs and daily This map includes future rapid transit alignments set out in
TransLink’s Transport 2050 (T2050) and Access for Everyone plans,
needs in an equitable way, prioritizing low-cost, healthy ways of getting around,
and potential expansion of the Frequent Transit Network to
while supporting the economy. support growth identified in the Vancouver ODP and other
documents.
Transportation plays a vital role in supporting the community and regional partners to align Notes
a thriving city and region, connecting us to priorities. We will also work with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm 1 Sections where SkyTrain will be over ultimate capacity require
people and places, influencing our quality (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and high-capacity parallel transit lines.
of life, the environment, and the economy. səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations (the local 2 The Major Transit Network (MTN) can be delivered through
However, many people continue to face travel Nations) to advance their priorities through at-grade bus rapid transit on existing rights-of-way or grade
barriers. More neighbourhoods need shops specific projects and wider planning processes. separation where appropriate. Examples of corridors with
and services closer to home, with safe and We want to ensure a resilient, equitable, grade separation in T2050 include Millennium Line extension
comfortable streets and greenways, and accessible, low carbon transportation network to UBC (UBCx), Metrotown – Park Royal (Second Narrows)
better access to frequent transit. We also need that supports a growing city with diverse and UBC – Metrotown (41st-49th Ave) including locations in
to better serve diverse community needs and population needs. other parts of the region. While T2050 does not specify grade
separation on Commercial Dr. north of Broadway, the City will
address inequities in service provision, safety,
explore compatible alignments and technologies through study
universal accessibility, greenery, and dignified
Connection to existing and partnership with TransLink.
travel.
policies 3 Frequent Transit Network Expansions are subject to review in
The City has long prioritized affordable, partnership with TransLink.
Vancouver ODP directions complement
healthy, and low carbon ways to get around
other transportation-related Future transit alignments are conceptual and may change
and as a result, by 2016, over half of residents’
documents, including TransLink’s subject to future, more detailed planning. Transit investments
trips were made by walking, biking, and
Regional Transportation Strategy - rely on funding from TransLink and the provincial and federal
transit. Through the Vancouver ODP, we will Transport 2050 (2022) and Access for governments and timelines are not included in this work. Existing Transit Future Transit Urban Structure Strategy First Nations Reserves
continue to align land use and transportation Everyone Plan (Transport 2050: 10-Year SkyTrain Station SkyTrain Capacity Relief Measures1 Metro Core/Broadway + MTC Park or Open Space
to build neighbourhoods that help people
Priorities; 2022), the Climate Emergency SkyTrain Line Major Transit Network2 Industrial/Employment Greenspace Outside Vancouver
meet their daily needs without having to drive. Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
We will transform road space from spaces for Action Plan (2020) and the City’s current West Coast Express Express/Interregional Transit Rapid Transit Area City Boundary
vehicles to places for people. transportation plan - Transportation Reconciliation Frequent Transit Network Streetcar Alignment Neighbourhood Centre
2040 (2012). Together these documents
Frequent Transit Network3
guide transportation decisions for the Equity Village
This Plan sets the stage for accelerating
city and region. Multiplex Area
transportation planning efforts, working with
Resilience
130 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 131
noitatropsnarT
.5
5
traP
Part
5
5.
TransportationMap 9: Long-term greenway network Direction 5.1: Land Use and Urban Design
Enable safe and comfortable walking, biking, and transit through land use and urban
design
Locating people closer to their destinations and designing
buildings oriented towards sustainable travel, makes
walking and rolling the easiest and most convenient
option for most trips. Allowing a greater mix of uses,
including jobs and housing, close to transit increases
access to the city, region, and beyond. With new growth,
we need to carefully manage private vehicles to reduce
impacts on streets and neighbourhoods.
West End Pedestrian Plaza (Source: Paul Krueger, Flickr)
Policies
5.1.1 Reduce the need to drive and decrease 5.1.3 Explore locating shops, services, businesses,
carbon emissions by locating shops, services, and a range of housing types along
businesses, and diverse housing types in greenways, while considering vehicle access
areas that can be well-served by walking, needs (off of car-free greenways).
rolling, biking, and transit.
5.1.4 Enhance connectivity and incorporate age-
5.1.2 Design transit station areas as friendly design through new development to
neighbourhood hubs that support seamless provide a fine-grained walking, rolling, and
travel to and from the station with local biking network (e.g., considering new routes
amenities for shopping and stopping (such and connections through large sites) that also
as grocery stores, services, and public supports safe, enjoyable, and active travel for
spaces). Incorporate features that make these children, youth, and seniors.
Greenways Regional Network First Nations Reserves spaces inclusive and engaging for all ages, 5.1.5 Implement policies that disincentivize driving,
particularly for children, youth, and seniors,
Existing Major Greenway Major Bikeway Network Park or Open Space (e.g., shared district parking, eliminating
in order to promote active movement and
Future Major Greenway Regional Greenway Public School minimum parking requirements, limiting
social interaction.
Existing City Greenway Greenspace Outside Vancouver parking supply) while safeguarding mobility
for those who rely on vehicles and expanding
Future City Greenway City Boundary
age-friendly active travel infrastructure.
Tentative Greenway* Map 10: Walkability and access to jobs by transit
*Tentative greenways are dependent on securing new rights-of-way and/or construction permissions across railway corridors. Map inputs:
Future and tentative greenway alignments are conceptual and may change subject to future, more detailed planning.
Jobs accessible within 40
minutes by public transit
Greenways are high quality active transportation, recreation, Major Greenways: Higher order, city-wide, and regional- High
and public space corridors that support walking, biking, and serving greenways connecting major destinations (such as
rolling for people of all ages, abilities, and identities. The aim destination parks, hospitals, higher education, and cultural
is for all residents to live within a 5-minute walk of a greenway, institutions), spanning shore-to-shore and beyond city
Low
connecting neighbourhoods and key destinations across the boundaries.
First Nations Reserves
city, and enhancing public life.
City Greenways: Greenways that connect important city
destinations (community parks and public spaces, schools, Walkability
neighbourhood shops) and create an interconnected network
within the city, connecting Vancouver’s many neighbourhoods High
together.
Neighbourhood Greenways: Smaller scale connections
serving neighbourhoods (several blocks) to provide last mile Low
connectivity from major/city greenways to neighbourhood/ First Nations Reserves
local destinations (not shown, identified in Area Plans).
Walkability index input parameters:
Regional Greenway: High-quality regional active
street connectivity (density of
transportation, recreation, and public space corridors that
intersections), land use mix, residential
support walking, biking, and rolling for people of all ages, Low Walkability First Nations Reserves
density, commercial density, presence of
abilities, and identities.
sidewalks, and sidewalk conditions. Low Access to Jobs by Transit Park or Open Space
Illustration of a future greenway (Source: City of Vancouver) Source: City of Vancouver Low Walkability and Low Access Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Note: These maps reflect conditions in 2022 to Jobs by Transit City Boundary
132 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 133
noitatropsnarT
.5
5
traP
Part
5
5.
TransportationDirection 5.2: People-First Streets Direction 5.3: Future Planning
Create people-first streets by transforming road space to support population growth Accelerate planning for an equitable and sustainable transportation future for people
and the changing needs of residents and businesses and goods
Policies Policies
5.2.1 Support safety and comfort for walking, 5.3.1 Collaborate with the local Nations to improve
rolling, and biking on local streets to transportation options, including better
provide greater connections to and through active travel and transit connections to
neighbourhoods and to key destinations. Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh
Include measures to ensure lower motor developments, and First Nations Reserve
vehicle volumes and speeds. Lands.
5.2.2 Support safe and comfortable walking, 5.3.2 Identify and address the needs of equity-
rolling, biking, and transit access to denied groups in transportation planning,
destinations on retail streets. Support public design, and operations, improving access to
life and the local economy, planning for destinations and opportunities.
deliveries and micromobility devices.
5.3.3 Support rapid transit expansion approved
5.2.3 Reimagine arterials to be safe and livable through the Regional Transportation
while efficiently moving people and goods. Strategy, Transport 2050, including Broadway
Reduce the impacts of polluting vehicles and SkyTrain to UBC, and identifying relief
optimize goods movement. Child biking (Source: Jin Cheong) measures for Expo Line and Canada Line, as
Example of a people-first street (Source: Paul Krueger, Flickr)
they reach capacity.
5.2.4 Amplify and intensify the greenway network Building on current plans, the City will work with the
Over 80 percent of Vancouver’s street space is as car-light to car-free corridors for active community, the local Nations, and regional partners to 5.3.4 Ensure that the efficient and sustainable
dedicated to vehicles. As the city grows, we can transportation and recreation, providing respond to urgent challenges (such as climate change movement of goods is considered as part of
transform streets to make space for people to a high-quality, continuous experience and growing inequities) and new opportunities (such all future planning to strengthen the City’s
gather, walk, and bike; and for reliable transit, water with public spaces, ecological and green as emerging technologies, expanding transit network, role as a port city and premier Asia-Pacific
management, habitat corridors, public space, and infrastructure functions. and efficient goods movement). Gateway.
park space. This will require a flexible and adaptable
5.2.5 Provide a network of car-free retail streets in Map 11: Major Road Network 5.3.5 Plan for emerging mobility-related
approach, balancing core needs of the street and
the city centre, supporting public life and the technologies, such as shared mobility,
supporting those that need to travel by car.
local economy, while considering required micromobility, and self-driving vehicles.
services, deliveries, and general vehicle
5.3.6 Update the City’s transportation plan and
access.
develop a comprehensive Greenways
5.2.6 Leverage street improvement projects to Refresh Plan to advance implementation
deliver co-benefits for transportation, public of the Greenway Network, building on the
space, water, and natural systems. Transportation 2040 Plan, Translink’s Bus
Priority Vision, the Climate Emergency Action
5.2.7 Develop strategies that prioritize walking, Plan, and aligning with regional priorities.
biking, transit, and public space on streets
over parking, while considering persons with 5.3.7 Maintain and enhance the Major Road
disabilities and others with essential parking Network (MRN) to ensure safe and
needs. efficient movement of people and goods
in collaboration with TransLink to fund
5.2.8 Support transit and transit priority measures Major Road Network operations, maintenance, and rehabilitation,
First Nations Reserves
to enable reliable, accessible service and City of Vancouver while retaining City ownership and
Park or Open Space
Illustration of a future street showing space for walking, biking, and foster car-light and car-free living across the Other Municipalities operational responsibility.
transit (Source: City of Vancouver) city. Greenspace Outside
Other roads/highways
Vancouver
5.2.9 Design streets to be safe, inclusive, and Provincial Authority City Boundary
age-friendly to support walking, rolling, Federal Authority
and biking for children, youth, and seniors,
The Major Road Network (MRN) connects the provincial highway system with
improving health and lowering emissions. local roads, supporting the safe and efficient movement of people and goods
across the city. TransLink contributes funding for the operation, maintenance,
and rehabilitation of the MRN, with the City retaining ownership and operational
responsibility.
134 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 135
noitatropsnarT
.5
5
traP
Part
5
5.
TransportationFeature Topic:
Transforming Road Space
Creating people-first streets by
changing how we use road space
5
9.3,
9.4
5.2,
10.2
4.2,
4.3,
9.
3,
9.
B
co
ik
n
e
n ections
5.2
i
We will change our streets to improve Public seating Improved tree Habitat
Canopy coverage improvement
walking, biking, and transit and Spaces to harvest, share food
and share knowledge
create more space to manage water,
Access to shade/rain cover
create ecological corridors, and
for people to gather and enjoy the Residential and mixed-use
outdoors. development integrated with
the public realm
Working with communities, we will redesign streets through
pilot projects and street reconstruction, creating new and
expanded plazas, parks, and paths.
These people-first streets will: 1
1.
1
4,
• Connect and amplify surrounding land uses
4.4,
9.
• Meet the changing needs of residents and businesses
• Create an integrated network of public spaces,
Opportunity to transform road
ecological corridors, rainwater management,
space next to parks and improve
greenways, and space for walking and biking
access to nature
• Strengthen resilience and climate responsiveness
through the integration of natural assets
• Make walking, biking, rolling, and taking transit safer
and more comfortable
• Integrate universal accessibility
Note: For some uses like plazas or bikeways, trial or Green infrastructure for integrated
pilot projects may be undertaken prior to permanent rainwater management
installation, allowing more opportunities for public input.
4.2,
4.4
Opportunity for
Improved connections public art
and measures to increase Public washrooms
Images clockwise, starting from the top left corner: safety for people walking, Plazas for
Main Street plaza (Source: City of Vancouver) cycling and taking transit gathering and
Bute Street pedestrian walkway, West End (Source: Paul Krueger, Flickr)
to support
Public seating, 21st and Main Street (Source: City of Vancouver)
community
T
B
r
u
e
m
e
b
ca
le
n
b
o
e
p
e
y,
,
d
Je
o
r
w
ic
n
h
t
o
o
P
w
a
n
r k
V a
(S
n
o
c
u
o
r
u
c
v
e
e
:
r
V
(
a
S
n
o
c
u
o
r
u
ce
v
:
e
A
r
l
P
is
a
o
r
n
k
B
B
o
o
u
a
l
r
i
d
er
)
)
activities 5.2,
10.2
Greenway biking (Source: Paul Krueger)
S. Vancouver Growing Eden Garden Program (Source: City of Vancouver)
Sunset Beach Park (Source: Aaron Lao)
P
G
u
re
b
e
li
n
c
i
w
n
a
fr
s
a
h
s
r
t
o
ru
o
c
m
tu
s,
r e
d
,
o
S
w
u
n
n
t
s
o
e
w
t
n
P a
P
r
o
k
r
(
t
S
la
o
n
u
d
rc
(
e
S
:
o
S
u
h
r
a
ce
n
:
n
i
o
St
n
o
M
ck
e
p
n
h
d
o
e
t
s
o
)
s)
8.1,
8.3
F
8
a
0
m
0 R
ily
o
:
b
F
s
i
o
ve
n
F
P
i
l
g
a
u
z
r
a
e
(
s
S
f
o
o
u
r
r
a
ce
T
:
r
J
i
a
a
s
n
p
g
a
le
l M
by
a r
L
w
ys
a
e
h
L
)
emieux (Source: Rachel Topham)
9.3,
9.4
7.5,
9.4
Pedestrian crossing (Source: Paul Krueger)
5.2
Above: Concept sketch showing a future transformed street. Numbers alongside images ( # ) indicate related policy direction(s).
See Part 4 Future Growth and Part 5 Policy Areas for more information.
136 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 137Map 12: City-facilitated childcare
Children playing at the beach (Source: City of Vancouver)
6. CHILDCARE
Vision: Children and families in Vancouver can access licensed quality childcare in
their neighbourhood as part of a universal system.
Access to quality, licensed childcare and and renewal of public and non-profit full-day
early learning improves health outcomes licensed group childcare spaces, for children City-facilitated Childcare First Nations Reserves
for children throughout their lives and helps aged 0-5 years, working in partnership with
Existing Park or Open Space
to equalize outcomes among all children senior governments, Indigenous governing
Future Greenspace Outside Vancouver
regardless of race, ethnicity, household bodies, the development community, non-
City Boundary
income, or neighbourhood. It enables families profit operators, and Community Centre
to live in the city, and is critical to a thriving, Associations.
healthy, and stable economy by allowing
Through collective efforts, Vancouver will
parents to participate fully in the workforce.
ensure a future where all children have an
As a key determinant of female labour force
opportunity to develop to their full potential
participation, access to affordable and quality
and childcare is the backbone of a thriving,
childcare is essential to achieving gender
equitable economy.
equality.
Connection to existing policies
Provincial and federal governments are
School Age Childcare (6-12 years)
building universal childcare systems where Vancouver City Council has twice endorsed the
all parents can access affordable, quality In 2022, the Province transitioned childcare $10aDayPlan for universal childcare, in 2011 and
childcare. In 2024, the Government of responsibilities to the Ministry of Education 2021. Making Strides: Vancouver’s Childcare
Canada passed the Early Learning and Child and Child Care. As a result, the City of Strategy (2022) provides a policy framework
Care Act, which commits long-term funding Vancouver has a reduced role in supporting and investment strategy to support a universal
to provincial, territorial, and Indigenous school age care, which more closely aligns childcare system. Other City policies also highlight
partners to build a Canada-wide childcare with provincial mandates. The City of childcare as a priority, including the Employment
system. Although childcare is a responsibility Vancouver has shifted focus toward the Lands and Economy Review (2020), the Women’s
of senior governments, the City plays a critical delivery of care for children aged 0-5, where Equity Strategy (2018), the Community Economic
role in leveraging land use planning tools, it is positioned to make the most significant Development Strategy (2016), and the Healthy City
investments, and partnerships to support and impact (see Direction 7.8: Public Schools for Strategy (2014).
advance universal childcare. Vancouver will policy regarding childcare on school sites).
continue to facilitate the creation, retention,
138 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 139
eracdlihC
.6
5
traP
Part
5
6.
ChildcareDirection 6.1: Universal Childcare
Expand, support, and retain public and non-profit full-day licensed group childcare
spaces alongside planning for housing and jobs, as part of complete neighbourhoods
Policies
6.1.1 Align rate of public and non-profit childcare
development with growth of housing,
schools, and job spaces.
6.1.2 Integrate public and non-profit childcare
in all suitable areas of the city, prioritizing
investments and incentives that would
have the greatest impact on equity (e.g.,
target investments in areas where there is a
greater population of low-income families or
underserved employment areas).
6.1.3 Plan for a diversity of new public and non-
profit childcare facility types on a variety of
Children at the Creekside Child Development Centre - a childcare centre sites (e.g., district childcare hubs close to,
co-located with Creekside Community Centre
or co-located with, elementary schools and
(Source: City of Vancouver)
other social infrastructure), including publicly
owned sites, prioritizing opportunities
Childcare is an important element of complete for rapid delivery (e.g., prefabricated or
neighbourhoods and thriving economies. A universal modular).
childcare system requires key partnerships to enable
the expansion of public and non-profit childcare 6.1.4 Apply incentives and/or requirements to
spaces. Identifying opportunities for childcare delivery deliver and secure public and non-profit
requires thoughtful consideration around location, childcare in both City-owned and non-
space requirements, and design features. This will City-owned facilities, including alignment
ensure safe and accessible spaces that help children with large sites, housing, and employment
thrive. developments.
6.1.5 Ensure all facilities are designed, located, and
built to support healthy child development.
Integrate Indigenous perspectives into
planning and design for public and non-profit
Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
childcare services.
Reconciliation
Equity
Resilience
Planning for the future (Source: City of Vancouver)
140 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 141
eracdlihC
.6
5
traP
Part
5
6.
ChildcareThe Vancouver ODP focuses on the following types of community infrastructure:
• City-delivered community infrastructure: • NPO-operated and City-supported community
facilities funded, operated, and/or jointly operated infrastructure: facilities including neighbourhood
by governing boards and partners such as the houses, family places, youth, seniors’ and social
Vancouver Public Library (Vancouver Public Library service centres, spaces for immigrant-serving
Board) and community centres (Park Board organizations, social enterprises, Indigenous
and Community Centre Associations), as well as healing and wellness centres, food-related
City-run social and community centres such as infrastructure (e.g., community kitchens), and
Carnegie Centre, Evelyne Saller Centre, and The other facilities that provide space for community
Gathering Place. use (e.g., cultural centres, community halls, and
places of worship).
• Region-serving major facilities: facilities • Public schools: operated by the Vancouver School
including hospital campuses and major university Board and the Conseil scolaire francophone. Public
and college campuses. schools not only serve educational needs but are
also local hubs for connection and activity.
Map 13: Community facilities
Background: Community infrastructure in its many forms;
Inset: Trout Lake Rink (Source: City of Vancouver)
7. COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
Vision: Vancouver’s community infrastructure meets the needs of all residents.
It is resilient, equitably distributed, and responsive to population growth and
changing needs.
Community infrastructure plays an essential role in Over the next 30 years, community facilities
the lives of Vancouver residents, providing access will need to respond to a growing, diverse, and
to the activities, services, and supports people changing population. Upgrades and investments
need to stay healthy, engaged, and connected are necessary to keep pace with population
throughout life. Community infrastructure (e.g., growth and to ensure equitable access. At the
libraries, community centres, public schools) same time, we need to ensure our network of
are invaluable resources, especially for families community infrastructure is financially sustainable.
and those who are from lower socio-economic
populations or equity-denied communities.
Connection to existing
The network also includes regional-serving
policies
infrastructure, such as healthcare campuses,
educational institutions, and government facilities.
Vancouver has a number of policy
documents covering different aspects
Some community infrastructure and services
of community infrastructure, facilities
are delivered by the City and its boards, such
and services. These include: Community
as libraries and community centres. Others
Centre Strategy (2022), Spaces to
are delivered by senior levels of government,
Community Centre Swimming Pool First Nations Reserves
Thrive: Vancouver Social Infrastructure
school boards, or by non-profit organizations
Strategy (2021), the Parks Washroom Neighbourhood House Ice Rink Park or Open Space
(NPOs) and community partners. The City
Strategy (2020), Resilient Vancouver Library City-owned Social Facility Greenspace Outside Vancouver
creates opportunities for both City and
community-operated services by working with Strategy (2019), and the Vancouver City Boundary
Public Library (VPL) Facilities Master
the development sector and senior governments
Plan (2018). The Vancouver ODP This map highlights City-owned and long-term leased social facilities as well as non-City-owned facilities with major capital
to secure and maintain spaces. There are also
plays an important role of advancing investments* from the City of Vancouver. However, it is not a comprehensive representation of the complex and diverse social non-
many other community services in Vancouver
implementation of these existing profit ecosystem. City-owned and long-term leased social facilities can have multiple social non-profit tenants and other shared users
that are not operated or supported by the City,
policies through city-wide land use throughout the city. It does not include City-supported social non-profits through the Social Policy Grants program or the many social
which also play a significant role in the community
policies and planning. non-profits that operate in non-City affiliated facilities.
infrastructure “ecosystem” to support healthy
communities.
*For reference “major capital investments” is considered to be $500,000 or more.
142 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 143
erutcurtsarfnI
ytinummoC
.7
5
traP
Part
5
7.
Community
InfrastructureMap 14: Civic services, health, and public safety Direction 7.1: Community-serving spaces
Deliver and support community-serving spaces across all neighbourhoods to meet
population growth and changing needs, prioritizing underserved communities
Policies
7.1.1 Seek to ensure growth is supported with
community-serving spaces, aligned with
the Spaces to Thrive: Vancouver Social
Infrastructure Strategy.
7.1.2 Identify strategic opportunities to make
space for new community-serving uses (e.g.,
within new developments on City-owned or
private sites) in areas where known service
gaps exist.
7.1.3 Centre an Indigenous approach to community
infrastructure that honours the relationship
to xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
A range of community-serving spaces offered at Hillcrest Park (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh)
(Source: City of Vancouver) Nations (the local Nations) through design,
cultural elements, and partnerships with
urban Indigenous-led service providers.
Community-serving spaces enable the delivery of
programs that foster health, well-being, and resilience, 7.1.4 For City-delivered and City-supported
promote a sense of belonging, and help residents facilities located in areas of existing cultural
meet their basic needs. These critical programs redress initiatives (e.g., Hogan’s Alley,
are delivered by public, non-profit, and community Chinatown, Paueru-gai, Punjabi Market) and
operators in a variety of spaces. Community future redress initiatives, ensure statements
Civic Administration Building Vancouver Police Department First Nations Reserves infrastructure is critical to support Vancouver’s of cultural significance and partnership with
Hospital Public Facility Park or Open Space population, particularly equity-denied groups. There is those communities inform the development
Existing Fire Hall Service Yard, Zero Waste Centre, Greenspace Outside Vancouver strong and growing demand for these spaces and the process, from pre-planning to project
Future Fire Hall and Waste Transfer Station City Boundary services they provide. delivery.
7.1.5 Develop anti-displacement incentives for
This map shows civic services, health facilities, and public safety infrastructure that form part of the city’s essential community NPO-operated social services and programs,
infrastructure network, focusing on the main publicly accessible facilities. Additional Vancouver Police Department facilities are including the replacement of existing and the
integrated into neighbourhoods. Additional health facilities – such as ambulance stations, urgent primary care centres, and clinics creation of new spaces in high growth and
– also play a critical role in supporting Vancouver residents. Similarly, additional civic administration buildings and yards support other strategic locations in redevelopment
municipal functions. scenarios.
7.1.6 Locate new City-delivered facilities close to
transit and other services to optimize access
and convenience for users.
Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
Reconciliation
Equity
Resilience
144 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 145
erutcurtsarfnI
ytinummoC
.7
5
traP
Part
5
7.
Community
InfrastructureDirection 7.2: Libraries Direction 7.4: Co-located Spaces
Maintain and enhance access to library spaces that are welcoming and enable Enable more social and community uses through co-location, shared spaces, and the
residents to engage with information, ideas, and each other use of underused or vacant spaces
Policies Policies
7.2.1 Seek to ensure growth is supported with 7.4.1 Plan and design City-owned civic facilities to
increased library space, with the majority accommodate co-location of multiple NPO
of additional space allocated to branches, tenants.
in alignment with VPL’s Facilities Master
Plan.
The non-profit sector plays an essential role in
the delivery of social-serving programs. While
governments and funders help to build and
regulate spaces for NPOs (e.g., by providing
Vancouver Public Library, Renfrew Branch, Early literacy space Marpole Community Hub (Source: Marpole Oakridge Family Place) grants and advocating for the importance of
(Source: VPL)
social infrastructure), NPOs give purpose to these
Locating multiple services in the same facility can spaces. They work by responding to needs in their
The Vancouver Public Library (VPL) plays a vital role in
result in many benefits: creating more affordable communities, delivering critical social programs and
communities. Libraries provide books, media, accessible
space; allowing organizations to collaborate and services.
information, research support, free learning opportunities,
deliver innovative services; increasing opportunities to
free indoor public space, meeting rooms, and shared spaces
share resources and services; and enabling residents Nearly half of social NPOs in Vancouver have reported
through the Central Library and 20 branches across the city.
to access multiple services in the same location. The a lack of suitable, affordable, and secure space to
The library is facing high demand within aging facilities and
City can facilitate the use of shared community space meet community needs. A majority of organizations
insufficiently sized branches in neighbourhoods where the
in civic buildings, particularly where facilities such as face unstable tenure (i.e., short lease terms) and
majority of residents live.
libraries, community centres, and other civic amenities limited funding.
are co-located.
Direction 7.3: Community centres and recreational facilities
Ensure community centres and recreational services continue meeting the needs of all
communities
Policies
7.3.1 Ensure the equitable delivery of services
by protecting, renewing, and upgrading
facilities and assets (e.g., community
centres, recreational facilities, and public
washrooms) in alignment with growth in
policy.
Aquafit class (Source: City of Vancouver)
Vancouver’s community centres and recreational facilities
are important hubs for community life, health, and play.
Their programs and spaces, made possible by partnerships
with the Community Centre Associations, contribute to
the health of communities and our sense of connection,
expression, and identities. The Vancouver ODP will ensure
these facilities provide for existing and future residents.
146 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 147
erutcurtsarfnI
ytinummoC
.7
5
traP
Part
5
7.
Community
InfrastructureDirection 7.5: Access to Safe Public Washrooms Direction 7.6: Campus Institutions
Expand the range of public washrooms for all residents and ensure access for people Support intensification of campus institutional sites, and their networks, to meet the
who currently experience barriers to water and washrooms as a human right needs of a growing population
Policies
Policies
7.6.1 Subject to 7.6.3, support intensification of
7.5.1 Improve access to washrooms in plazas,
campus institutional sites to serve the city’s
City-owned civic facilities, and other public growing population.
spaces.
7.6.2 To provide for future institutional expansion,
7.5.2 Work with non-profit agencies and business
major institutions are encouraged to consider
owners to increase washroom services and
leasing rather than selling lands that are
infrastructure, to align service provision with
considered surplus to their current needs
need.
and explore possible use of the site for
Vancouver General Hospital (Source: Arzen Chan) an alternative suitable public institutional
Vancouver includes a number of major campus purpose. This will allow for growth needs
As of 2025, there were 141 public washrooms facilities
institutions including: over time.
in the city with the majority open from dusk to dawn.
• hospital campuses that include some of the most
Public toilet, downtown Portland (Source: iStock photo) The Vancouver Public Library also offers washroom 7.6.3 Residential uses are not permitted on campus
advanced teaching and research hospitals in the world;
access across its 21 locations. The City supports institutional sites, except for dormitory style
two Washroom Attendant Programs at Pigeon and • university and community college campuses; and, rooms.
Access to washrooms is a fundamental human right, Oppenheimer Parks. • administrative government facility campuses such as
and providing washroom services as the city grows Civic District (City Hall campus).
is essential. Improving the safety, accessibility, The Parks Washroom Strategy (led by the Vancouver
These institutions, shown as Campus Institutional in
availability, and cleanliness of washrooms is a Park Board) begins with an understanding that
Part 5 2. Economy Map 6, are among the largest
high priority for the public, particularly important washrooms are an essential public service and that
employers in the city and attract thousands of employees,
for women and gender-diverse people, people everyone is entitled to safe, clean, and accessible
patients, students, and visitors every day. As the
experiencing homelessness, sex workers, people who washrooms; and lays out a plan for how to deliver
population of the city grows, there will be a growing
use drugs, and other communities who rely on public facilities in a feasible and comprehensive approach.
demand for expansion of these campus networks.
washrooms for basic human needs.
Direction 7.7: Community-serving Institutional
Support community-serving institutional uses as part of complete neighbourhoods
For further details relating to childcare see Part 5 6.
Childcare.
Policies
7.7.1 For sites with existing community-serving
institutional uses undergoing redevelopment
through rezoning, seek either no net loss,
or an increase in floor area for community-
serving uses in the redevelopment proposal.
This policy does not pertain to exclusive
worship space in places of worship.
Frog Hollow Neighbourhood House (Source: UWLM iVolunteer) 7.7.2 Encourage the replacement of existing and
Vancouver’s neighbourhoods include a diverse range development of new public or non-profit-
of institutional uses of varying sizes and scales. childcare or community care and assisted
Community-serving institutions such as public and living uses. Should an application propose
non-profit childcare facilities, seniors care homes, a closure or a reduction in size of any of
places of worship, social service centres, etc. are the above, the applicant should provide an
woven into neighbourhoods throughout the city. assessment that states the impact on supply
These institutions form the social fabric of our city, within the area and city-wide.
contributing to community vibrancy and resilience.
148 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 149
erutcurtsarfnI
ytinummoC
.7
5
traP
Part
5
7.
Community
InfrastructureDirection 7.8: Public Schools
Ensure public schools are supported as integral features of complete neighbourhoods
Policies
Vancouver is home to 115 public schools (including
five francophone schools) distributed throughout its 7.8.1 Seek to maintain strong partnerships and 7.8.5 If a school district deems it necessary to close
diverse neighbourhoods. British Columbia’s public communication with the school districts, an existing school or dispose of any school
schools play a vital role in our communities. Schools including sharing of data, projections, site, or portion thereof, any change of use
are natural centres of activity in neighbourhoods, strategic priorities, and any impacts that and/or intensification of use beyond existing
serving not just the education needs of school aged decisions may have on communities. zoning will require an ODP amendment.
children, but also serving as sites for early learning The City will take into consideration the
and childcare and as local hubs for connection, 7.8.2 Support the school districts in jointly current and future needs of the surrounding
accessing play and outdoor physical activity on planning and advocating for the expansion neighbourhood and the request of the
valuable community open space. As the city grows, or renewal of schools and/or related public- school district when evaluating any proposed
protecting existing and securing additional school serving facilities on-site, and support the change of use or intensification of use
sites will be increasingly critical for creating complete school boards with any planning needs for beyond existing zoning.
neighbourhoods. new sites to serve growing communities.
7.8.6 Recognizing the central role schools
Charles Dickens Elementary (Source: City of Vancouver) 7.8.3 Collaborate with school districts to identify and school grounds play within many
opportunities for shared outdoor space that communities, encourage shared use of
Map 15: Current and future public schools support mutual community benefit. school facilities and lands for community-
serving purposes, including the valuable
7.8.4 Collaborate with school districts to
role these sites can play as outdoor space in
ensure public school sites accommodate
neighbourhoods.
the educational and learning needs of
school aged children, as well as other
complementary community-serving uses,
such as adult learning, early learning, and
childcare (including for school aged children).
Public Schools Post-Secondary First Nations Reserves
Institution
Existing Future (Approximate Locations) Park or Open Space
Elementary Elementary Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Secondary Secondary City Boundary
150 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 151
erutcurtsarfnI
ytinummoC
.7
5
traP
Part
5
7.
Community
InfrastructureMap 16: Arts, culture and heritage policy support areas
Area of High Concentration of Arts and Cultural
Spaces, and Heritage Resources: Continue to
support a high concentration of arts, cultural
production and performance spaces, and heritage
assets. Identify arts and cultural districts and/or
heritage districts and cultural landscapes, with tools
for their protection.
High Streets and Commercial Hubs: Support
diverse, affordable, accessible non-profit arts and
cultural spaces. Support adaptive reuse of underused
and heritage buildings, where possible.
Rapid Transit Areas, Neighbourhood Centres and
Villages: Foster public spaces that are culturally
vibrant, promote social connection, and cultural
expression. Support adaptive reuse of underused and
heritage buildings, where possible.
Tsleil-Waututh Wolf Dancer (Source: Nancy Bleck)
Industrial Areas: Support affordable non-profit arts,
culture, and music production spaces and reduce
8. ARTS, CULTURE AND HERITAGE
regulatory barriers. Support adaptive reuse of
underused or heritage buildings, where possible.
Vision: Vancouver has elevated arts, culture, and heritage in ways that reflect *Ethno-Cultural Community Areas: Explore
protection of cultural heritage assets, heritage
Vancouver’s diversity, position on unceded territory, and right relations with
values, services, and/or businesses for or from ethnic
Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh Nations. communities.
Vancouver is home to world-renowned artists, pressures. If left unchecked, Vancouver will lose Cultural Redress Areas: Recognize and address
diverse cultural traditions and industries, its highly valued arts, cultural, and heritage historical and contemporary forms of legislative and
and a flourishing music scene. We are also resources. municipal discrimination, erasure, and displacement.
As of 2025, these areas include Chinatown, Hogan’s
at the centre of an Indigenous cultural
resurgence. The xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), The City and community should support, Alley, Punjabi Market, and Paueru-gai.
resource, celebrate, and protect arts, culture,
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
and heritage in ways that recognize the Heritage Districts: Identify and protect new heritage
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations (the local Nations)
importance of reconciliation, decolonization, districts where there is a high concentration of
and urban Indigenous Peoples, as well as
equity, and accessibility. Opportunities for arts tangible or intangible heritage assets. As of 2025,
people from around the world, have instilled
these include Chinatown, Gastown, Yaletown, and
and cultural spaces and businesses should be
Vancouver with qualities, stories, heritage, and
First Shaughnessy.
created throughout the city. Current definitions
character that make the city unlike any other.
of heritage are expanded to emphasize both
Multiplex Areas: Increase opportunities for cultural
Theatres, studios, public art and plazas, and tangible and intangible heritage assets and
production and programming in community
cultural centres enliven Vancouver, while our values.
centres, schools, libraries, and/or outdoor areas.
architectural forms and monuments reflect our
Explore options for arts and cultural production as
identities and histories. The city’s heritage— Connection to existing
homebased business.
from oral traditions and rituals to archeological policies
sites, historic areas, and buildings—tells a rich
Marine Drive and Knight Street Study Area: Explore
and complex story that is Vancouver. The Vancouver Heritage Register (2024)
arts and cultural production as part of study.
and Vancouver Heritage Program (2020) Area of High Concentration of Arts and Heritage District First Nations Reserves
Arts, culture, and historic areas contribute to the provide a renewed vision for heritage in Cultural Spaces and Heritage Assets
Cultural Redress Area Park or Open Space
city’s identity, collective experiences, and the Vancouver. Culture|Shift (2019), Making
Prioritize, support, and make visible Musqueam, Squamish, High Streets and Commercial Hubs**
Ethno-Cultural Community Area* Greenspace Outside Vancouver
economy, driving tourism and job creation. At Space for Arts and Culture (2019) and the and Tsleil-Waututh cultural spaces, places, and areas of cultural
Rapid Transit Areas, Neighbourhood
the same time, artistic and cultural communities Vancouver Music Strategy (2019) affirm significance city-wide, as guided by the local Nations. Multiplex Area City Boundary
Centres and Villages
experience increasing costs, limited incomes, the City’s commitment to arts and culture. Marine Drive and Knight Street Study Area
Industrial Area
loss of production and presentation spaces, The Vancouver ODP advances these policy
and restrictive regulations. Further, heritage documents through land use policies and *Areas identified on this map only represent Council recognized areas to date, and do not reflect all potential areas.
resources are vulnerable to redevelopment planning. **High Streets and Commercial Hubs were identified in a consultant study as areas with existing retail-commercial space.
Through the Vancouver ODP, the city will seek opportunities to expand these areas over the long term.
152 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 153
egatireH
dna
erutluC
,strA
.8
5
traP
Part
5
8.
Arts,
Culture
and
HeritageDirection 8.1: Arts and Culture Focus Direction 8.2: Arts and Cultural Spaces
Embed arts and culture in city-building Expand and support spaces to produce, present, and experience arts and culture
Policies Policies
8.1.1 Ensure cultural vitality is integrated into 8.2.1 Prioritize, support and make visible the local
Vancouver’s sustainable development, Nations’ cultural spaces, places, and areas
identity, livability, and economic prosperity, of cultural significance, as led by the local
by including arts and culture in land use Nations.
planning processes and policies.
8.2.2 Identify arts and cultural districts where
8.1.2 Consider and support, artist and community- there exists a high concentration of arts and
led priorities and practices in land use cultural production or presentation spaces,
planning processes and policies, particularly and/or expressions of cultural heritage, and
elevating artists’ voices of equity-denied develop tools for their protection and growth.
groups.
8.2.3 Continue to remove regulatory barriers and
update policies and guidelines to reduce
Man Up Productions (Source: Chanel Viner)
displacement and protect arts, cultural, and
music spaces.
A thriving arts scene, and the people who make it, 8.2.4 Support the growth of diverse, affordable,
require spaces for production, performance, and accessible non-profit arts and cultural spaces
practicing. Making Space for Arts and Culture identifies city-wide.
10-year targets of “no net loss” of Vancouver’s cultural
spaces and 650,000 square feet of new or repurposed 8.2.5 Include public art, and arts and cultural
space for professional and community arts and spaces in new community and civic facilities,
cultural activities. This includes art and rehearsal such as libraries, fire halls, community
Koko by Peter Gazendam, Brewers Park
(Source: Rachel Topham) studios, outdoor performance venues, museums, and centres, and City Hall.
galleries. The Vancouver ODP supports the creation of
8.2.6 Develop outdoor music and performance
new, affordable, and diverse spaces, while seeking to
Arts and culture contribute to neighbourhood vitality protect existing arts and culture spaces. spaces in parks and other public space.
and help define Vancouver’s identity. The Vancouver
8.2.7 Support innovations in ownership and
ODP supports arts and culture as a core civic priority
operations such as land trust models, funding
through appropriate investments and a focus on
models, shared spaces, and community-
land use and infrastructure planning, processes and
owned assets.
policies.
8.2.8 Support integration of arts and cultural
spaces into new mixed-use developments,
particularly in areas where existing arts or
Icons indicate policies that are advancing: cultural spaces could be displaced.
Reconciliation 8.2.9 Apply equity and accessibility approaches
when planning for cultural spaces and
Equity
programs, addressing how different equity-
denied groups may experience physical,
Resilience
social, cultural, linguistic, spatial, or financial
barriers to participation.
154 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 155
egatireH
dna
erutluC
,strA
.8
5
traP
Part
5
8.
Arts,
Culture
and
HeritageDirection 8.3: Heritage Stewardship
Ensure meaningful and respectful stewardship of tangible and intangible heritage
resources, in particular supporting Indigenous and equity-denied communities’
perspectives and approaches
Policies
8.3.1 Prioritize and support the local Nations’
visibility, voice and cultural practices across
the city through public art, revitalization
of hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓ and Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
languages, cultural spaces and programming,
educational initiatives, and design, as led by
the local Nations.
8.3.2 Continue to collaborate with local Nations
to protect recorded and unrecorded
archaeological and traditional use sites,
incorporate archaeological protections in
area planning and development, and explore
and expand protection tools and methods,
including reflecting changes in provincial
policy.
8.3.3 Explore and expand planning tools to protect
culturally important places, tangible and
intangible heritage assets, heritage values,
and historic places with a focus on ethno-
cultural community areas and cultural
redress areas.
8.3.4 Ensure the Vancouver Heritage Program
furthers an understanding of the local
Nations’ cultural heritage and historic places,
and those of equity-denied groups.
8.3.5 Encourage heritage conservation, including
through adaptive reuse of historic buildings
and accommodating arts, cultural, and
community-serving uses whenever possible.
Untitled (Welcome Figure) by Darren Yelton
(Source: City of Vancouver) 8.3.6 Integrate input from communities on their
histories and heritage values in area planning
processes, including from the local Nations.
Culture and heritage can expand and deepen our
understanding of the city’s remarkable diversity, past
8.3.7 Identify and protect new heritage districts
and present. It is important to recognize and celebrate
or cultural landscapes where there is a high
the many cultural communities that comprise the city
concentration of tangible or intangible
and to advance understanding of cultural heritage and
heritage assets, including development of
cultural landscapes. The City and community must
historic context statements.
address historic and current discrimination, erasure,
and loss experienced by many communities.
Flow Tide by Shion Skye Carter and KisyuuH Nistitosruick eG aAsbteo(wSonu (rScoeu: rSchei:o Cno Sryk yDeo Cbasortne)r)
156 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 157
egatireH
dna
erutluC
,strA
.8
5
traP
Part
5
8.
Arts,
Culture
and
HeritageMap 17: Parks and public space
Existing Features
Parks: Publicly accessible parks designated for
community use, recreation, and naturally managed
areas. These lands are protected for long-term public
benefit and form the foundation of the city’s parks and
public space network.
Golf Courses (Public/Private): Large open spaces
used for golf recreation. May be publicly accessible
or privately owned and operated. Public golf courses
may include perimeter paths that offer community
access. These areas also provide habitat for birds, small
animals, and pollinators.
Cemetery: Lands dedicated for interment and
remembrance that also contribute to passive green
space, biodiversity, and urban cooling.
Sunset Serenade, Keys to the Streets at Spyglass Dock Regional Parks and Greenspace Outside Vancouver:
(Source: Steve Chou) Parkland and natural areas outside of Vancouver that
are owned or managed by other governments or
9. PARKS AND PUBLIC SPACE agencies (e.g., Metro Vancouver).
Public Plazas and Open Spaces: Sizeable publicly
accessible open space and plazas with space or
Vision: Vancouver’s parks and public space network is welcoming, inclusive, amenities that promote group gathering or individual
lingering. Other key corridors like high streets and
and resilient. greenways also have important public space functions
but are not included on this map.
Vancouver’s parks, plazas, streets, paths, Through collaboration with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm
Seawall: A safe and comfortable 28-km walking and
and beaches make the city a vibrant place to (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and
biking route that begins at the Vancouver Convention
live. These outdoor public spaces are where səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations (the local Centre and ends at Spanish Banks Park.
people gather, explore, and connect. They Nations) and community partners, the City will
also support social, cultural, recreational build a parks and public space network that Arbutus Greenway: 9 km of old railway corridor that
and political activities, as well as the local plays a key role in addressing major challenges: has been transformed into a walking, biking, and
rolling path from False Creek to the Fraser River.
economy and natural environment. Access responding to climate change; protecting
to these spaces is critical for our health and ecosystems; and building an equitable, diverse
Additional greenways are shown on the Long-Term
well-being, and these spaces serve as living and culturally vibrant city.
Greenway Network in Part 5 5. Transportation.
rooms and backyards for many people,
including the most vulnerable members of our Future Public Parks
communities. Public space is fundamental to Connection to existing Future parks depicted are only those identified or secured
participation in public life. Safe and equitable policies through Council-approved policy statements, area-specific
access to quality spaces across the city for Official Development Plans and rezonings or parkland
everyone is critical to the social well-being of The ODP provides city-wide direction acquisitions. This map will be updated to show additional parks
the community. relating to public space. The City has as they are secured through planning processes or additional
several additional plans and strategies parkland acquisition.
Vancouver has a great legacy of parks and covering aspects of public space in
City Parks: Planned future parkland identified or
public spaces, from destination parks and the more detail, including Transportation secured through Council-approved policy statements,
seawall, to neighbourhood plazas and vibrant 2050 (2022), Places for People: area-specific ODPs, rezonings, or parkland acquisitions.
high streets. However, as Vancouver continues Downtown Public Space Strategy These parks are intended to improve access and Park Public Plaza and Open Space Future Public Parks First Nations Reserves
to grow, demands on the network will also (2020), VanPlay: Vancouver’s Parks and support population growth. Golf Course (Public/Private) Seawall Approximate Secured City Boundary
increase. These spaces must accommodate Recreation Services Master Plan (2020, Cemetery Arbutus Greenway Location* Location*
Owned by the Local Nations: Future publicly
many different and sometimes competing Park Board approved), and the Plaza City Park
accessible lands owned by the local Nations, reflecting Regional Parks and Greenspace Outside
uses, with limited space and resources. Stewardship Strategy (2022). Indigenous stewardship and governance. Vancouver In Partnership with the
Local Nations
*Location is approximate and not representative of park size. Park boundaries and programs will be further defined through rezonings or future planning processes.
158 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 159
ecapS
cilbuP
dna
skraP
.9
5
traP
Part
5
9.
Parks
and
Public
SpaceDirection 9.1: Indigenous Stewardship Direction 9.2: Inclusive Public Life
Support the local Nations in shaping parks and public spaces Promote an inclusive public life, by prioritizing underserved areas
and equity-denied groups
Policies
Policies
9.1.1 Work with the local Nations to identify,
prioritize, lead, and deliver parks and public 9.2.1 Meaningfully engage equity-denied groups
space projects, and explore co-management, to better understand their experiences of
where appropriate. parks and public spaces, and prioritize their
preferred uses and perceptions of safety in
9.1.2 Seek opportunities to create public spaces, public space planning and design.
including within parks, specifically designed
for the local Nations’ use, including land and 9.2.2 Prioritize underserved areas and
water access, artistic and cultural expression, communities when identifying parks and
and traditional harvesting. public space projects and investments.
Pulling Together Canada, Gathering of Canoes
9.1.3 Explore opportunities to integrate the 9.2.3 Recognizing that parks and public space
(Source: City of Vancouver)
hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm̓ and Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh languages improvements and programming can
in parks and public spaces, including naming displace street-involved and homeless
Ongoing colonial practices continue to impede Hot+Noisy Chinatown Majong Social, Chinatown Memorial Plaza,
Indigenous Peoples’ rights, visibility, and voice. spaces, as led by the local Nations. Community Partners: Youth Collaborative for Chinatown 青心在 persons and sex workers, ensure
唐人街 (now Chinatown Generations) (Source: Jonathan Desmond engagement with existing communities and
Reconciliation efforts and strengthening relations
9.1.4 Work with urban Indigenous communities Photography) outreach staff to better address their needs.
with the local Nations and urban Indigenous Peoples
and organizations to support their parks and
are fundamental to the stewardship of parks and public space priorities, and work with the 9.2.4 Ensure the equitable delivery of park services
Communities and individuals who are racialized may
public spaces. The City commits to work with the local Nations to ensure that local protocols by protecting, acquiring and renewing parks
face barriers to participating in public life and lack
local Nations to identify, participate in, and help lead and procedures are followed, where they in alignment with evolving needs and policy.
representation in parks and public spaces, as do
parks and public space projects, and by promoting
deem appropriate.
those who are marginalized because of their sex,
Indigenous leadership in cultural visibility planning and
gender identity, sexuality, background, ability, age,
ongoing management.
and/or economic status. To build truly welcoming,
inclusive, equitable, and culturally vibrant parks and
public spaces, the City must work with equity-denied
groups to understand and prioritize their needs and
perceptions of safety, and put underserved areas first.
Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
Reconciliation
Equity
Resilience
VANCOUVER ODP | 161
Part
5
9.
Parks
and
Public
Space
160 | VANCOUVER ODP
ecapS
cilbuP
dna
skraP
.9
5
traPDirection 9.3: Grow and Enhance the Network Direction 9.4: Universal, Safe, All-season Design
Grow and protect the parks and public space network, to provide ample, high-quality Create universally accessible and safe public spaces that are dignified and comfortably
spaces and robust connections across all neighbourhoods accommodate all people, throughout the day and across all seasons
Policies
Policies 9.4.1 Establish accessibility as the baseline for
public spaces.
9.3.1 Identify opportunities to provide a full
spectrum of public space types and uses for 9.4.2 Provide critical infrastructure to support
each neighbourhood to support: gathering public life (e.g., seating, power, lighting; and
and social connection; cultural expression access to public washrooms, drinking water,
and celebration; civic action and democratic and misting stations).
expression; respite and connection to nature;
physical activity, health, and well-being; food 9.4.3 Incorporate weather protection, weather-
security and local economic vibrancy. mitigating elements, and appropriate
Rainy Days, šxʷƛ̓ ənəq Xwtl’e7énḵ Square (Source: City of Vancouver) programming for rain/winter and summer/
9.3.2 Ensure the public space network provides heat conditions.
easy and enjoyable connections to For many Vancouver residents, public space often
Pop-Up Plaza at 21-Main St. stewarded by Coco et Olive café, Little landmarks and attractions, to and through serves critical functions in their daily lives, including 9.4.4 Encourage safe and welcoming evening
Mountain Neighbourhood House, local residents,
neighbourhoods, and to parks. access to services and neighbourhood connections. experiences in nightlife areas and encourage
and local artists. (Source: City of Vancouver)
Public spaces need to be dignified, universally a greater diversity of activities in the
9.3.3 Explore how the existing street network can accessible, and comfortable for people all year round, adjoining public spaces.
create more space for people-first uses (e.g.,
in all weather, and provide core infrastructure to
Parks and public spaces must accommodate a broad
park-like spaces) and natural habitat.
support basic needs.
range of uses and activities. As density increases and
available land becomes more limited, new approaches 9.3.4 Seek to deliver new and renewed parks
Direction 9.5: Nature, Ecology and Resilience
will be needed to expand and enhance Vancouver’s and public spaces through development
parks and public space network. The City faces (including large site development), rezoning, Ensure the parks and public space network supports the city’s social and ecological
increasing fiscal pressures, and public investments and land acquisition, where there is an
resilience
must be strategically prioritized to maximize impact. identified need.
Creative and flexible solutions, such as strategic land Policies
acquisition, partnerships on private property, and 9.3.5 Update land use policy to support more park
transforming road space for people-first uses, will help and public space delivery through private 9.5.1 Integrate, manage, and enhance natural
maximize use while preserving quality. property development, where feasible assets and ecosystem services within the
(e.g., park dedication or, where not feasible, parks and public space network to increase
privately owned public spaces or ‘POPS’). For neighbourhood resilience and improve the
park dedications, seek ”terra-firma” space, city’s ecological health.
free of underground and above ground
9.5.2 Design parks and public spaces to be
encumbrances.
responsive to the natural environment, and
9.3.6 Develop updated parkland acquisition policy recognize the local Nations as leaders of
applicable at city-wide and neighbourhood environmental and ecological protection.
Stormwater retention pond at Hinge Park
levels, and responding to growth, under-
(Source: PWL Partnership) 9.5.3 Explore the use of public spaces as response
served areas, funding, and acquisition
hubs, to support Vancouverites in times
opportunities.
The parks and public space network that includes of earthquakes, flooding, or other natural
the seawall, plazas, streets, sidewalks, and laneways, disasters.
is an extensive land base in Vancouver, and thus
9.5.4 Enable residents to connect through sharing
a significant opportunity to respond to climate
and growing food by creating food and
change. Where possible, we will repurpose portions
medicine gardens and outdoor picnicking
of these areas for habitat protection, enhancement
facilities in public spaces.
and restoration, rainwater management, heat island
mitigation, disaster response planning, and active
9.5.5 Integrate active transportation and
transportation.
micromobility into the public space
network, including shared micromobility
(e.g., public bike share), to better connect
neighbourhoods and key destinations.
162 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 163
ecapS
cilbuP
dna
skraP
.9
5
traP
Part
5
9.
Parks
and
Public
SpaceDirection 9.6: Community Partnership Direction 9.7: Park Design and Programming
Build and invest in community partnerships, fostering broader participation and social Strive for Vancouver’s parks to meet the needs of a diverse and growing community
connection, and promoting resilient, community-led stewardship of public spaces
Policies
Policies
9.7.1 Ensure the parks system provides a careful
balance of active recreation areas, passive
9.6.1 Partner with community organizations,
spaces, and natural systems.
non-profits, event organizers, and local
businesses to co-manage public spaces in
9.7.2 Ensure parks are designed and maintained
their neighbourhoods; and develop outreach,
to support intensive use while withstanding
education, and communication tools, as part
climate change, seismic hazards, and
of an inclusive public space management
extreme weather. Resilient amenities and
approach.
infrastructure will help sustain park assets
amid growing demand, sea level rise, and
9.6.2 Expand the opportunities for lower-barrier
other environmental challenges.
work through public space programming,
Pop-up Plaza at Maple St. and 4th Ave in partnership with West stewardship, and vending. Granville Loop Park (Source: City of Vancouver) 9.7.3 Determine design and programming of parks
4th Ave BIA, Museum of Vancouver and Kits House (Source: City of
and public spaces on a site-by-site basis,
Vancouver) 9.6.3 Design public spaces with built-in flexibility Vancouver contains over 240 municipal parks,
close to the time of construction or renewal
and infrastructure to accommodate a wide from iconic destination parks like Stanley Park to
Community involvement is critical to the success of in order to reflect the dynamic communities
range of uses, and to allow communities to community, neighbourhood, and local parks. While
public spaces, as residents, community organizations, they serve, through Indigenous rightsholder
evolve the spaces over time. 99 percent of residents live within a 10-minute
and businesses have immediate knowledge of the and community engagement. Park designs
walk of a park, access to quality and sufficient park
public space needs in their local neighbourhoods and 9.6.4 Lower barriers to public participation space remains uneven across the city. In addition and programming are to be aligned with
can help drive the delivery of local programming, in community-led placemaking and to acquiring new parkland, planning and design approved city-wide parks policies and
events, and placemaking in public spaces. The City programming, by improving coordination programs should be informed by equity-based strategies where relevant.
must continue to build partnerships, and empower
between jurisdictions, and strengthening analysis, spatial data, and meaningful Indigenous
community stewards to co-manage public spaces by
communication tools, programs, and rightsholder and community engagement, to ensure
providing them with the right tools, including outreach
funding. investments respond to park access gaps, growth, and
and education, staff support, and sufficient service
evolving needs.
levels.
164 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 165
ecapS
cilbuP
dna
skraP
.9
5
traP
Part
5
9.
Parks
and
Public
SpaceMap 18: Urban watersheds
Bioswale, Southeast False Creek (Source: Wendy de Hoog)
10. UTILITIES
Vision: Vancouver’s utility infrastructure meets the needs of all residents. It is
resilient, well-managed, responsive to population growth, climate change, and
the changing needs of communities.
Vancouver relies on its utilities and water solid waste management services, the most Urban Watershed First Nations Reserves
resources to provide daily needs, safeguard visible public utility, are provided by the City Existing Stream Park or Open Space
public health and safety, and support a and include an array of services, programs, Old Stream Greenspace Outside Vancouver
functioning city, economy, and ecosystem. policies, and guidelines. Other utilities (such Old Shoreline City Boundary
The City, together with senior government as communications services) are provided by
partners, is responsible for basic services third parties with whom we share the roads,
including unseen underground networks sidewalks, and lanes to accommodate their
of pipes and cables that provide water for infrastructure. Icons indicate policies that are advancing: Connection to existing policies
drinking and fire suppression, convey sewage
for treatment, manage rainwater, and deliver Moving forward, the City will rethink systems Reconciliation The City’s leading water management policies
energy (such as electricity, gas, hot water, and and approaches to maximize low carbon, include the Water Demand Management Strategy
nature-based solutions, accommodate Equity (2025) to manage the use of drinking water, the
steam).
population growth, and respond to pressures Drinking Water Conservation By-law (updated
Resilience
The City also manages a low carbon energy of urbanization, water consumption trends, and 2023) to regulate application of drinking water on
utility providing space heating and hot rising construction costs. lawns and landscape, and the Rain City Strategy
water in some neighbourhoods. In addition, (2019) to capture and treat rainwater closer to
where it falls. The City is also governed by the
Metro Vancouver Integrated Liquid Waste and
Resource Management Plan (ILWRMP), which
coordinates regional wastewater management,
aiming to protect health and the environment,
use wastewater as a resource, and minimize
treatment costs. Additionally, the Zero Waste 2040
Strategy (2018) supports Vancouver to become a
zero waste community by 2040. The Vancouver
ODP will further this work through city-wide land
use planning and policies.
166 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 167
seitilitU
.01
5
traP
Part
5
10.
UtilitiesApproach to Water Management
Water Resources One Water planning approach
Local Indigenous communities have valued, The City has adopted a One Water planning
celebrated, and relied upon sustainable water approach to managing water. This approach
management practices for millennia. Since the values all forms of water, considers the entire
arrival of the settlers, urban development has urban water cycle, and integrates all aspects
disrupted the water cycle, degraded natural of water management and infrastructure with
systems, and eliminated important natural nature.
assets. The cumulative impacts of this harm
have reduced or eliminated opportunities for
the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Figure 18: One Water planning approach
(Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh)
Nations (the local Nations) to fish, harvest
shellfish, and practice culture.
Looking to the future, Vancouver will plan
water-related systems to incorporate
Indigenous environmental stewardship
principles; protect watersheds and natural
water resources; be resilient to climate change
risks such as water shortages, flooding, sea
level rise and drought; and, deliver equitable
and adaptable services to the communities.
Bioretention at 63rd Avenue and Yukon Street (Source: Shannon Mendes)
168 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 169
seitilitU
.01
5
traP
Part
5
10.
UtilitiesDirection 10.1: City-Wide Water Resource Planning
The Healthy Waters Plan
Take a holistic approach to managing all water resources and improving the health of The Healthy Waters Plan will guide long-range investments,
the aquatic environment policies, and programs to address pollution from CSOs and urban
rainwater runoff, meet the growth needs of the city, and tackle
Development has dramatically altered water systems land use changes and growth servicing, and
key risks related to climate change and aging infrastructure.
in the city, and management practices have polluted while managing sewer and drainage system
Key directions were adopted in early 2025, and work is now
local waterbodies and aquifers. In addition, climate capacity to mitigate flooding impacts under underway to develop an adaptive implementation and financial
change will continue to create challenges in the years current climate conditions and in response to
plan. As compared to business as usual, the Healthy Waters Plan
to come. A watershed-based planning approach climate change and sea level rise.
aims to deliver a greater reduction in overall pollution impacts at
recognizes that healthy water systems are important
a significantly lower cost, while also delivering on other critical
for a thriving urban environment and that all forms of 10.1.3 Build and maintain a resilient, sustainable
objectives relating to infrastructure condition, livability, ecosystem
water are interconnected. water distribution system that ensures
health, climate adaptation, and flooding risk reduction. The local
equitable access to drinking water and fire
Policies protection as the city grows, with a focus Nations and Metro Vancouver are critical partners in this work. Hinge Park Wetland (Source: City of Vancouver)
10.1.1 Use a watershed-based planning approach, on reducing potable water consumption in
guided by the Healthy Waters Plan, when future developments to mitigate the impacts
Map 20: Sewer and drainage infrastructure
considering infrastructure investments, of climate change.
land use changes and growth servicing, and
10.1.4 Continue to coordinate with Metro Vancouver
while managing sewer and drainage system
Liquid Waste Services and Metro Vancouver
capacity to mitigate flooding impacts under
Water Services on the scale and timing of
current climate conditions and in response to
future major developments and on the City’s
climate change and sea level rise.
proactive approach to reducing combined
10.1.2 Use a watershed-based planning approach, sewer overflows (CSOs), that includes
guided by the Healthy Waters Plan, when combined sewer separation, green rainwater
considering infrastructure investments, infrastructure, and other interventions, as
per the Healthy Waters Plan.
Map 19: Water distribution infrastructure
City of Vancouver Sewer Mains Sewer Pump Stations
First Nations Reserves
Effluent Type City of Vancouver Engineering Asset
Park or Open Space
Combined Greater Vancouver Sewerage &
Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Separated Drainage District Asset
City Boundary
Metro Vancouver Sewer Trunk Mains
Sewer Catchment Area
Effluent Type
Green Rainwater Infrastructure
Combined
Pressure Reducing Valve Station First Nations Reserves Watercourse
Separated
Greater Vancouver Water District Main Park or Open Space
City of Vancouver Main Greenspace Outside Vancouver Storm *WWTP stands for Waste Water Treatment Plant
City Boundary
170 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 171
seitilitU
.01
5
traP
Part
5
10.
UtilitiesDirection 10.2: Manage Water in the Street Right-of-Way Direction 10.3: Make Space for Water in Buildings and on Sites
Manage water on public property to address climate change risks and achieve Manage rainwater and optimize drinking water use on private property
associated co-benefits
Policies
Policies
10.3.1 Develop land acquisition plans and design
10.2.1 Reallocate parts of the public right-of-way guidelines to create room for natural buffers,
(e.g., streets and sidewalk areas) to expand green rainwater infrastructure, and water-
the breadth and scale of nature-based assets adaptive public spaces.
such as green rainwater infrastructure.
10.3.2 Promote and accelerate the implementation
10.2.2 Develop a city-wide blue green network of of building-scale drinking water conservation
connected park-like streets that manage and offsetting, rainwater management, and
rainwater, support climate adaptation groundwater protection tools.
and biodiversity, and create public space
opportunities.
10.2.3 Restore, maintain, and maximize the use
Sunset Park Bioswale (Source: Shannon Mendes) of existing natural creeks, streams, and Vancouver Convention Centre, green roof
drainage assets. (Source: Robert Pennings)
Climate change impacts, including heat island effects,
droughts, flooding, and sea level rise, are worsening
Private property can play a key role in managing all
the inequity and affordability of the City’s water
forms of water in the urban water cycle. Building-scale
management systems. This calls for a shift in how
tools, such as onsite storage or harvest and reuse
the City plans and provides services to communities,
systems, capture rainwater while potentially offsetting
including leveraging the use of public land to manage
drinking water use. On a larger scale, rainwater
rainwater closer to where it falls, while enhancing
management approaches, such as wetlands, control
ecosystems and public spaces. Planning for risks
runoff while enhancing the community and improving
associated with the floodplain can be reviewed in
ecology.
Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction.
Map 21: Long-term Blue Green Network
Blue green network
The blue green network will
manage water along existing
rainwater flow paths to capture,
clean, and infiltrate water.
The network will help reduce
flood risk, improve receiving
water quality, and replenish
our aquifers. The blue green
network is envisioned as being
part of the larger network of
ecological corridors, as shown
on Map 21.
Blue green network alignments are
Blue Green Network First Nations Reserves
conceptual and may change subject
to future, more detailed planning. Existing Stream Park or Open Space
Old Stream Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Old Shoreline City Boundary
172 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 173
seitilitU
.01
5
traP
Part
5
10.
UtilitiesDirection 10.4: Manage Solid Waste and Reduce Waste Direction 10.5: Energy and Communication
Ensure proper waste collection and disposal, and advance zero-waste practices Support the delivery of energy and telecommunication services to all residents
Policies Policies
10.4.1 Provide solid waste management through 10.5.1 Continue to work with third-party utility
services, programs, policies, and guidelines providers (including BC Hydro, Fortis, and
that are aligned with the City’s Zero Waste telecommunications companies) to ensure
2040 Strategic Plan, Metro Vancouver’s compatibility with City infrastructure and
Integrated Solid Waste and Resource sufficient delivery of services to support
Management Plan, and provincial regulations. growing neighbourhoods.
10.4.2 Encourage, support, and enable residents, 10.5.2 Integrate sustainable energy solutions into
businesses, and institutions to prioritize area planning by promoting and expanding
avoid, reduce, and reuse as the most low-carbon thermal energy networks to
preferable waste management options, reduce carbon pollution, make use of waste
followed by recycling and composting, with heat, and enhance energy resilience by
disposal to landfill or incinerator as the least alleviating pressure on the electrical grid.
preferred option. False Creek Neighbourhood Energy Utility
(Source: City of Vancouver)
10.4.3 Promote flexible building use/reuse and Coordinating with third-party utilities that provide
Residential solid waste collection (Source: City of Vancouver) reduce the need for demolition, through energy and telecommunications is crucial for a
approaches such as regulations, stakeholder city to support its growing neighbourhoods. By
The proper management of solid waste is an engagement, outreach, and education. aligning efforts with these providers, the City can
integral part of how the city functions and is crucial
ensure that essential services such as energy and
for maintaining a clean, healthy, and vibrant city. 10.4.4 Identify and secure space on both public
telecommunications are seamlessly integrated with
Managing solid waste includes collection and and private property to enable a system
City-owned utilities like water, sanitary, and drainage
disposal operations, keeping the public realm clean of neighbourhood and city-scale materials
systems, and the False Creek Neighbourhood Energy
and safe, setting policies and regulations, building management to support a circular economy,
Utility. This collaboration helps to optimize the use of
infrastructure, and providing public education. In zero waste initiatives, and local job
shared street rights-of-way, minimizing disruptions
Vancouver, the Zero Waste 2040 Strategic Plan provides production.
during maintenance and construction, and enhancing
a strategic framework for Vancouver to become a zero
the overall efficiency of infrastructure development.
10.4.5 Create efficient and convenient public
waste community that supports sustainable resource
Moreover, such coordination fosters a more resilient
and private waste management systems
use, a healthy economy, affordability, vibrant and
and adaptable urban environment, capable of meeting
that meet the needs of a densified urban
inclusive neighbourhoods, and equal opportunity
the evolving needs of its residents while promoting
environment and minimize impacts on the
through dramatically reducing solid waste.
sustainable growth and development.
public realm and environment.
Neighbourhoods that offer opportunities to share,
10.4.6 Integrate opportunities to create
repair, reuse, and recycle goods and resources
environmental, social, and economical False Creek Neighbourhood Energy Map 22: False Creek neighbourhood energy utility coverage area
can connect people through zero waste initiatives,
benefits from waste management systems. Utility
inspiring greater community involvement,
partnerships, innovation, and sharing of materials.
The City owns and operates the False
Land use decisions can support the goals of the Zero
Creek Neighbourhood Energy Utility
Waste 2040 Strategy and Climate Emergency Action Plan,
(NEU), which extracts heat from our
and shift to a culture of sustainable consumption.
sewage system and delivers low-
carbon building heating and hot
water to neighbourhoods in the False
Creek area. The NEU is supporting
the City’s work on the Climate
Emergency Action Plan – Big Move
#4 – Zero Emissions Space and Water
Heating.
The Vancouver South Transfer Station is for commercial and residential customers to dispose of garbage, and to drop off select
recyclable materials. The Vancouver Landfill is in Delta.
174 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 175
seitilitU
.01
5
traP
Part
5
10.
UtilitiesDirection 11.1: Equitable and Resilient Food System
Support the development of an equitable and resilient food system
Policies
11.1.1 Improve food access across the city by
supporting food-related retail and services
(e.g., grocery stores, food banks, farmers
markets, restaurants) and by expanding
commercial-retail opportunities in more
neighbourhoods. Include consideration
for culturally appropriate options where
possible.
11.1.2 Secure additional space, reduce barriers,
and create incentives for food and medicine
Produce store (Source: City of Vancouver) gardens, urban farms, and harvesting
Collingwood dinner program (Source: City of Vancouver) (e.g., berries, shellfish, and fish) to advance
reconciliation, increase opportunities for local
11. FOOD SYSTEMS Utilize a holistic approach to sustain and grow food food production, and build connection to
supply chains and community-based food initiatives in land and waters.
an equitable and resilient way. This involves working
11.1.3 Support and strengthen Vancouver’s food
with partners; creating spaces to celebrate, grow, and
Vision: Vancouver’s resilient food system supports people, the
supply chains (such as food wholesale, retail,
share food; increasing access to food; and, supporting
environment, and the economy. Residents have equitable access to food a circular food economy. and manufacturing uses, food hubs, farmers
markets, and urban farms) and address
and food-related spaces and infrastructure.
displacement of these critical food assets.
11.1.4 Leverage new development and/or
Access to food is a basic human right and lack essential services such as charitable food
community infrastructure to ensure
defining element of day-to-day life. Food programs.
integration of community food assets such as
systems, which include the infrastructure Food assets are places where people can grow, sites for cultural celebration, neighbourhood
The food system is also a major climate
and processes needed for food production, prepare, share, buy, receive, or learn about food. food storage, growing, harvesting,
change driver, contributing up to one-third
processing, distribution, sales, and waste
programming, and sheltered picnicking
management, are a key element of city- of global GHG emissions. Food supply chains There are two broad categories:
facilities.
are vulnerable to disruption from increasingly
building. Food plays a powerful role in
frequent global climate, health, political, • The food supply chain (e.g., urban farms,
connecting people to each other, their 11.1.5 Address climate change, biodiversity, water
or economic events. Senior governments food wholesale, retail, and manufacturing
cultures, and the land and water. Food can systems, and waste management through
have jurisdiction over many food system infrastructure)
be leveraged to build resilience, improve food system interventions (e.g., encourage
components, yet cities also have a unique
equity, support human and economic health • Community resources (e.g., urban agriculture urban farming that enhances biodiversity).
responsibility to take action through land use
outcomes, and reduce environmental impacts. and harvesting spaces, community kitchens, and
planning strategies.
locations for food sharing and celebration)
The City is committed to a just and sustainable
food system for all. About 10 percent of
Vancouver households have inadequate Connection to existing
access to food due to financial constraints. policies
This rate is higher among equity-denied
Vancouver has long taken an active role
groups such as racialized and Indigenous
in food policy, adopting the Local Food
residents, who also experience below average
System Action Plan (2021), the Vancouver
access to food assets such as grocery stores
Food Strategy (2013), and including food
and urban agriculture spaces. Colonization Icons indicate policies that are advancing:
systems objectives in numerous area
and erasure of Indigenous identity has
plans. The Vancouver ODP builds on this Reconciliation
depleted important food sources and
work with new policies to advance an
interrupted the intergenerational transfer of
equitable and resilient food system, in Equity
Indigenous cultural practices around food.
relation to land use planning.
Further, important food assets face risk of Resilience
displacement, and many neighbourhoods
176 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 177
smetsyS
dooF
.21
5
traP
Part
5
12.
Food
SystemsThe maps included in this chapter show general
areas where hazardous conditions exist. The maps Connection to existing policies
are not intended to be interpreted at the site-specific
The Hazard Risk and Vulnerability Analysis (HRVA)
level. Further, additional hazards exist for which the
(2024) is a high-level study of the hazards that may
City does not yet have reliable city-wide mapping
impact a community and their potential consequences data; additional mapping is anticipated. To
to people, property, environment, economy, and critical
determine the risk and appropriate risk mitigation
infrastructure. The work connects closely to the Climate
measures at the site-specific level, site-specific
Change Adaptation Strategy (2024) and Resilient
professional studies and assessments are needed.
Vancouver Strategy (2019). The Vancouver ODP plays
an important role advancing this work by integrating
hazard risk awareness and mitigation into city-wide land
use policies and planning.
Icons indicate policies that are advancing: King tides overtop “Marking High Tide” in David Lam Park
(Source: Stewart McIntosh)
Reconciliation
Equity
12. HAZARDOUS LANDS AND RISK REDUCTION
Resilience
Vision: Vancouver is safer by understanding its hazards and risks and proactively
“A False Creek” artwork under the Cambie Bridge showing sea level rise (Source: Arzen Chan)
mitigating and adapting to them.
The impact of hazards is wide-ranging. hazardous conditions exist – such as areas
Hazards can affect physical and mental of steep slope, rail corridors, industrial
health, damage buildings, infrastructure, areas where hazardous materials can be
ecological systems, and disrupt services and present, areas more vulnerable to interface
the economy. fire, hydrogeological areas of concern, and
areas more prone to poor air quality. These
According to the Hazards, Risks and have the potential to impact groups of
Vulnerability Assessment (2024), the highest people differently due to societal structures,
risk hazards to Vancouver are earthquakes vulnerabilities, and differential exposure.
and extreme heat events, though risks These lands require special consideration
will change over time. Climate change is to address community health and safety
increasing the likelihood and severity of and potential for damage to buildings and
many hazards, and may cause new hazards infrastructure, as well as potential impacts
to emerge. Reducing disaster risk not only to natural environments. For these reasons,
benefits social and economic development appropriate precautionary measures through
but can reduce cost to governments and professional studies and assessments are
society. In order to make sound disaster risk needed in order to guide safe development,
reduction investments, cities need to better building design, construction, and long-
understand their hazard risks and strengthen term maintenance and monitoring. Locating
risk governance. and designing development to reduce the
risk of exposure to natural hazards is a key
This chapter focuses on lands subject to
component of resilience and adaptation,
hazardous conditions, and maps areas
ensuring public safety, and reducing property
prone to flooding, extreme heat, extreme
loss.
rainfall events, and earthquakes. Additional
178 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 179
noitcudeR
ksiR
dna
sdnaL
suodrazaH
.21
5
traP
Part
5
12.
Hazardous
Lands
and
Risk
ReductionFlood Hazard
Map 23: Surface flood hazard areas
Vancouver is exposed to various flood hazards. Map
23 shows potential surface flood hazard areas that are
relevant for consideration in area planning, including land
use and type of development, infrastructure, public space,
and amenity considerations. Map 23 is limited to higher
scale hazard conditions that are relevant for area planning
considerations and does not map flooding at all scales.
Other flood hazards not included on Map 23 include, but
are not limited to, sewer capacity and basement flooding,
groundwater related flooding, and shoreline erosion and
damage due to waves and currents.
The City regulates building design and development in
flood hazard areas through the Vancouver Building By-law
(VBBL). At this time, extreme rainfall overland flow hazard
is not included in the By-law’s designated floodplain
requirements. Over time, new policies and regulations may
be developed to address risk associated with this hazard,
as called for in the Climate Change Adaptation Strategy.
Designated Floodplain - Coastal Flood Hazard:
Areas within the designated floodplain, based on an
extreme coastal storm (combination of tide, storm
surge, and waves) incorporating 1m of sea level rise
anticipated by the Year 2100.
Designated Floodplain - Still Creek Flood Hazard:
Areas within the designated floodplain, based on an
extreme creek flow event incorporating increased
rainfall intensities anticipated by the Year 2100.
Areas of Concern for Overland Flooding caused
by Extreme Rainfall for Future Planning*: Areas
where an extreme rainfall event and associated
overland flow may cause multi-parcel inundation,
based on an extreme, short-duration, high-intensity
rainfall event incorporating increased rainfall
intensities anticipated by the Year 2100.
Extreme Rainfall Overland Flow Paths*:
Approximate alignment of major overland flow
with varying depth and velocity during an extreme
rainfall event (specific alignment to be confirmed
with more site-specific analysis).
Old Streams*: Approximate alignment of historic
Source: Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Vancouver Building By-law
streams that were destroyed, buried, and/or Designated Floodplain - Coastal Flood Hazard Extreme Rainfall Overland Flow Path First Nations Reserves
diverted into sewers as Vancouver was developed. Designated Floodplain - Still Creek Flood Hazard Existing Watercourse Park or Open Space
Areas of Concern for Overland Flooding caused by Old Stream Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Existing Watercourses*: Existing open channel
Extreme Rainfall for Future Planning
City Boundary
watercourses.
*Layer is not shown within the designated floodplain
King tides overtop the Seawall (Source: City of Vancouver)
VANCOUVER ODP | 181
Part
5
12.
Hazardous
Lands
and
Risk
Reduction
180 | VANCOUVER ODP
noitcudeR
ksiR
dna
sdnaL
suodrazaH
.21
5
traPExtreme Heat Hazard Seismic Hazard Map 26: Areas of amplification and liquefaction
Extreme heat can result in ecosystem stress, The extreme heat hazard map, especially when Vancouver is at daily risk of a damaging, life- soil and basin conditions are expected to
infrastructure damage, and increased mortality combined with equity-focused analysis, should inform changing earthquake. Recently the City, in cause ground shaking to be increased in
(particularly for equity-denied individuals due to design approaches for development within different partnership with Natural Resources Canada, amplitude or intensity (i.e., amplified). This
structural and societal factors). This hazard is being parts of the city, including landscaping, roofing, and completed a comprehensive seismic risk leads to more extensive damage in buildings
amplified by climate change. Map 24 shows the range building design to reduce heat island effect, promote assessment of the city’s 90,000 buildings. This and infrastructure. Liquefaction is where the
of land surface temperatures recorded on a hot passive cooling, and ensure active cooling where assessment determined that an M7.2 planning ground behaves like a fluid during strong
summer day, depicting areas of highest and lowest needed. Mapping could also inform investment scenario earthquake in the Georgia Strait, one shaking, leading to buildings or roads to sink,
relative risk. Specifically, data was from the June prioritization for building retrofits, tree canopy with ground shaking near to those required shift, and experience more extensive damage.
2021 heat dome event. Factors that influence surface expansion, installation of cooling features in the public for new building design within the VBBL, could
When layered onto the City’s seismic risk
temperatures include proximity to the water, amount of realm, and infrastructure planning and design. lead to over 6,100 extensively or completely
mapping, these maps can better inform
greenspace, and tree canopy coverage. damaged buildings. This could lead to as
building seismic risk reduction, other risk
many as 1,300 casualties and over one-third of
residents disrupted or displaced for over three
mitigation initiatives, and emergency response
and recovery planning. They can also inform
months. Map 25 shows that the entire city is
Map 24: Extreme heat hazard local earthquake engineering practice and
impacted by very strong to severe shaking
have the potential to guide future area-specific
during this scenario earthquake.
land use planning as well as development and
Map 26, reflecting recent seismic susceptibility building construction standards.
and hazard mapping by the University
of Western Ontario and the Institute for
Areas of Liquefaction
Catastrophic Loss Reduction (Metro Vancouver
Seismic Microzonation mapping, 2025), Areas of Amplification:
identifies areas where the city will be impacted
Shorter Buildings Moderately
by liquefaction and amplification during an
Impacted: Areas where moderate
earthquake with ground shaking equivalent
amplification will occur at shorter wave
to that within the 2025 VBBL (i.e., 2 percent
periods1 because of thinner and/or stiffer
in 50 years). Amplification is where variable
soil conditions, likely leading to more
extensive impacts from amplified seismic
Map 25: Ground shaking intensity
forces in shorter buildings (i.e., those six
or fewer storeys).
Shorter and Taller Buildings
Moderately Impacted: Areas where
moderate amplification is expected
for both short and long periods1, likely
leading to higher risk for buildings of all
heights .
Taller Buildings Moderately Impacted:
Areas where moderate amplification
will occur at longer wave periods1
because of thicker and/or softer soil and
Modified Mercalli Intensity scale basin conditions, likely leading to more
VII - Very Strong: Damage negligible in extensive impacts from amplified seismic
Source: USGS Land Surface Temperature image (2021), Vancouver Climate Change Adaptation Strategy (2024) buildings of good design and construction; slight forces in taller buildings (i.e., those 7 or
to moderate in well-built ordinary structures; more storeys).
Land Surface Temperature on a Hot Summer Day (°C) First Nations Reserves considerable damage in poorly built or badly Source: Metro Vancouver Seismic Microzonation Mapping Project (2025)
Taller Buildings Highly Impacted:
< 25 Park or Open Space designed structures; some chimneys broken. Areas where longer period1 shaking will Areas of Liquefaction Areas of Amplification First Nations Reserves
25-27 Greenspace Outside Vancouver VIII - Severe: Damage slight in specially be amplified the most, likely leading to Shorter Buildings Moderately Impacted Park or Open Space
27-29 designed structures; considerable damage
City Boundary extensive impacts from amplified seismic Shorter and Taller Buildings Moderately Impacted Greenspace Outside Vancouver
in ordinary substantial buildings with partial
29-33 collapse. Damage great in poorly built forces in taller buildings. Taller Buildings Moderately Impacted City Boundary
structures. Fall of chimneys, factory stacks, 1 Short spectral periods correspond to short wavelengths and thereby Taller Buildings Highly Impacted
columns, monuments, walls. Heavy furniture rapid or fast wave vibrations. Long periods correspond to long
wavelengths and thereby slow swaying or rocking wave motions. Note
overturned. that amplification is relative, referenced to a baseline dense soil or
soft rock ground condition. Amplification at longer spectral periods
Note: The Modified Mercalli Intensity Scale ranks shaking intensity (≥ 2.0 seconds period) includes amplification due to the Georgia
based on observed effects, ranging from imperceptible shaking to sedimentary basin which is not included in any Canadian or British
catastrophic destruction. Columbia seismic design guidelines or codes.
182 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 183
Part
5
12.
Hazardous
Lands
and
Risk
Reduction
182 | VANCOUVER ODP
noitcudeR
ksiR
dna
sdnaL
suodrazaH
.21
5
traPDirection 12.1: Understanding risk Direction 12.2: Risk mitigation and preparedness
Deepen our knowledge and understanding of hazard risks Proactively reduce risk through land use planning and policy development
Policies 12.2.3 Consider hazardous lands in area planning,
including considering limiting development
12.1.1 Establish a city-wide, comprehensive
on lands subject to hazardous conditions, or
approach to collect, manage and use data,
strategically allowing for redevelopment or
mapping, modelling, and knowledge about
changes in use where existing infrastructure
our hazards and risks.
or development is particularly vulnerable
to risk, giving careful consideration to
12.1.2 Continue to maintain and regularly update
displacement impacts.
the City’s Hazard, Risk and Vulnerability
Analysis in alignment with the provincial
12.2.4 Develop City policies and leverage
Emergency and Disaster Management Act
partnerships with provincial and federal
and Disaster and Climate Risk and Resilience
governments to reduce risks and adapt
Assessment.
buildings and infrastructure subject to
hazards like earthquakes, flooding, and
12.1.3 Engage with the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
extreme heat.
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ
(Tsleil-Waututh) Nations to incorporate
Sea2City design charrette (Source: City of Vancouver) Seismic upgrades at City Hall Annex (Source: Arzen Chan) 12.2.5 Development sites near rail facilities should
Indigenous concepts, ways of knowing, and reflect design solutions and incorporate risk
In order to make sound city-building decisions, histories related to hazards and resilience. Neighbourhoods have the opportunity to be built mitigation measures tailored to the unique
communities need to better understand hazard and designed in ways that enhance their resilience local context to address potential hazards
risks. The Hazard, Risk and Vulnerability Analysis (2024) 12.1.4 Centre the voices and needs of to hazards. Thoughtful, risk-informed planning and from heavy passenger and freight rail, as well
provides a high-level summary of hazards of greatest disproportionally impacted communities resilience-building can significantly reduce or even as health and safety concerns such as noise,
concern, their overall likelihood now and in the future, to reframe and transform the way we prevent disasters. While past choices have created vibration, and emissions. This may include
and their potential impacts to people, infrastructure, understand risks and prepare for the future. some risks, the decisions we make now and in the separating certain uses from rail facilities
buildings, environment, and economy. Many physical 12.1.5 Broadly share hazard, risk, and vulnerability future can greatly diminish those risks. and providing and constructing engineered
risks can be mitigated by the City through effective information with the community and solutions to mitigate derailment risk.
information sharing with the community and strategic Policies
partners to embed proactive resilience
land use planning through the City’s role as a 12.2.6 Developments located in areas exposed
planning into all city-building processes.
regulator. The following policies identify approaches 12.2.1 Coordinate efforts, internally and with to environmental health hazards such as
to support this work and further our understanding of partners, to manage hazards and embed noise and air emissions, particularly near
areas across the city subject to hazardous conditions. resilience in land use planning as well as major transportation corridors, industrial
planning and location decisions for new areas, or event zones (per the Noise Control
municipal utilities, assets, operations, and By-law), should incorporate enhanced
community services. construction techniques and thoughtful
site design, including consideration of
12.2.2 Continue to regulate development, require
separation and buffering where appropriate.
additional studies or information to
These measures should include careful
determine suitability for development, and
consideration for sensitive uses, such as
identify potential risk mitigation measures
childcare facilities, schools, and long-term
for development within hazardous areas (e.g.,
care facilities.
through requirements and regulations in
the Vancouver Building By-law) and improve
regulations and policies over time.
184 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 185
Part
5
12.
Hazardous
Lands
and
Risk
Reduction
184 | VANCOUVER ODP
noitcudeR
ksiR
dna
sdnaL
suodrazaH
.21
5
traPChildren jumping (Source: Chani Joseph)
PART 6:
INTRODUCTION
IMPLEMENTATION
The Vancouver ODP provides land use The ODP is also a key overarching Plan
directions and policies to advance the long- establishing direction for other plans, policies,
term vision for how the city will grow over the and regulations.
coming decades. Development within the city
Regular monitoring and evaluation of the
must be consistent with the Vancouver ODP.
Plan’s implementation will ensure the City
As such, the ODP will inform development
progresses towards achieving its stated goals
review, and provide input into public
and directions.
investment decisions and resource allocation.
VANCOUVER ODP | 187
Part
6
ImplementationVANCOUVER ODP
IMPLEMENTATION
2 Aligning and streamlining existing policies and regulations
The Vancouver ODP will be realized through a Currently, the City has a great number of policies,
combination of City-led policy development and guidelines, and regulations that inform land use and Aligning Zoning with the ODP
action and managing development to ensure that development decisions. These include area plans,
The City is on a journey towards
it is consistent with the Plan. Specifically, Plan specific rezoning policies, policy statements, area-
greater policy and regulatory clarity and
implementation will include: specific official development plans, etc. This ODP is
simplicity, while holding onto city-building
Vancouver’s first city-wide statutory land use plan.
tools that ensure best outcomes for residents.
Future work will include repealing all existing area-
1 Developing new area plans and policy Part of that journey is shifting the land use
and topic-specific ODPs by June 30, 2030 and creating
policy framework to create more predictability
new regulations and policies as needed, resulting
2 Aligning and streamlining existing policies and regulations for prospective applicants and enable more
in only one ODP. Additional efforts are underway to
development as-of-right. Over the years,
align Vancouver’s land use framework with the city-
3 Ensuring rezoning application consistency the City has initiated various rezonings to
wide ODP, including establishing standardized district
implement portions of area plans, and to align
schedules, which will result in clearer and streamlined
4 Managing assets and servicing growth zoning with policy. Implementation of the ODP
implementation.
Keys to the Streets program, a collaboration between CityStudio, will continue this work by bringing forward more
VIVA Vancouver, community organizations, individuals, and City-initiated rezonings using standard district
businesses (Source: Donny Wong)
schedules where appropriate. This will mean
that, over time, more parts of the city will have
zoning entitlements that align with the GLU.
1 Developing new area plans and policy 3 Ensuring rezoning application consistency
Area Plans New Policies Realization of the Vancouver ODP will in many ways
be through development. The Vancouver Charter
The ODP’s Urban Structure Strategy serves as a guide The Vancouver ODP also calls for creating additional
requires that development may not be contrary to or
for future area planning by establishing high-level policies, programs, and regulations to advance the
at variance with the ODP. Because zoning entitlements
directions for growth and change across the city. directions of the Plan. Part of implementation will be
are not being changed by the ODP, applications
As area planning unfolds, the Generalized Land Use continuing that work in collaboration with the local
proceeding under existing zoning will not be impacted
designations map will be updated to reflect any zoning Nations, other partners, and the public. Any new
by this requirement. Rezoning applications, however,
changes or new rezoning policies and will increasingly topic-specific plans and strategies developed by City
will be evaluated for their consistency with the GLU
reflect the Strategy. In some parts of the city, area departments will also be guided by the directions in the
designations conveyed on the GLU map, as well as
planning has recently taken place and is consistent with ODP and will need to be consistent with the ODP.
other policies of the ODP. Approval of rezonings that
the Strategy. In other parts of the city, additional area
are contrary to or at variance with the ODP will be
planning is needed to implement the Strategy (e.g. for
contingent upon amendments to the ODP.
Villages and Neighbourhood Centres), and to clarify
expectations and opportunities at the area-specific
level.
Future area planning work will include continued
engagement with xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil- Science World overlooking False Creek
Waututh) Nations, partners, and the public. (Source: City of Vancouver)
188 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 189
noitatnemelpmI
6
traP
Part
6
Implementation4 Managing Assets and Servicing Growth A LIVING DOCUMENT
The Vision of the ODP will also be advanced through These priorities, especially provision of new or
Updating the Plan
asset management and investment in infrastructure expanded growth-related infrastructure and
and amenities, as called for in the Plan. Several amenities, can be delivered partly by development,
The ODP is a long-term vision for how Vancouver grows in alignment with subsequent Housing Needs Report
components of the ODP will inform this work, including: through fees and charges, and development
and changes over time. It will be regularly updated in updates, and revised where necessary. The Regional
requirements. Financing growth tools are being
• the growth projections embedded in the Plan; updated to strike the right balance between ensuring response to a changing context and as new information Context Statement is required to be reviewed every five
becomes available, generally on a five-year cycle. years as well. These regular updates will ensure that the
• the infrastructure and amenity priorities expressed development contributes appropriately to growth-
ODP continues to reflect the latest demographic and
in policy directions; and related costs, while maintaining project viability, as The next update is anticipated to be in 2030 to respond housing changes and projections, regional planning
required by the Vancouver Charter. • the maps outlining the vision for future to legislative requirements to repeal all existing directions, and capital planning.
infrastructure and amenities, such as future parks Long-range city capital planning also seeks to topic- and area-specific ODPs and reflect an updated
and greenways. ensure assets are maintained and new amenities Housing Needs Report. Following that update, the Plan
is anticipated to be reviewed at least every five years,
and infrastructure are delivered. Given its limited
financial capacity and significant and growing
infrastructure deficit, the City will need to rationalize
service levels and formulate strategic and thoughtful Reconciliation, UNDRIP, and ODP Implementation
infrastructure and amenity plans that are financially
viable and sustainable over the long term. As the ODP Reconciliation is a foundational principle of the ODP. The Plan commits the City to engage and
is implemented over time, infrastructure investment collaborate with the local Nations when developing significant land use policies, and exploring opportunities
in utilities, transportation, parks, recreation, and to align strategies, plans, and principles. Implementation of the ODP will entail new policy work, which
other community and civic services will be considered will include working collaboratively to dismantle processes and procedures that perpetuate and maintain
through the City’s financing growth framework and injustices and inequities.
long-term financial and capital planning processes.
Vancouver’s UNDRIP Strategy and its Calls to Action are an overarching framework guiding the City’s
Projections and directions in the ODP will inform these
reconciliation efforts. As implementation of the UNDRIP Calls to Action continues, City-initiated amendments
plans, and future ODP updates will in turn reflect the
to the ODP may be brought forward for consideration to ensure that the ODP does not create barriers to the
infrastructure and amenity priorities of the plans.
advancement of UNDRIP Calls to Action.
Meeting the needs of a growing, changing city means
The foundational commitments to reconciliation and advancement of the UNDRIP Strategy will also inform
addressing the growing gap between City revenues
evaluation of applicant-led ODP amendments. Applications that advance reconciliation, for example, should
and the needs of residents and businesses, and finding
be considered to have a community benefit.
the right balance to realize the city’s future vision at
a cost that is affordable to residents and businesses.
Challenges include limited financial resources, as well
as competing priorities for limited City-owned lands,
Cambie Plaza (Source: City of Vancouver) and aging infrastructure. The City relies, critically, on
senior levels of government to support the delivery
of infrastructure and amenities, including aspects
that are crucial to complete neighbourhoods, such
as schools, childcare, affordable housing, and transit
infrastructure.
Utility Capacity
Vancouver relies on its utilities and water resources to provide daily needs, safeguard public health and
safety, and support a functioning city and economy. Utilities are often unseen, largely underground
networks of pipes and cables that carry drinking water, sewage, rainwater, energy (electricity, gas, hot water,
steam), and communications services. Implementing the Plan will mean continuing to work closely with
other service providers, such as Metro Vancouver, BC Hydro, Fortis BC, and others, to plan and deliver these
critical services.
The City is continuously working to align land use planning and utility planning to maximize the value of
infrastructure investments. In order to provide greater housing choice and job opportunities (more complete
neighbourhoods), utility upgrades may be required to support new development in some circumstances.
190 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 191
noitatnemelpmI
6
traP
Part
6
ImplementationAmendments to the Plan
PROCESS FOR AMENDING THE PLAN
Outside of regular updates to the Plan, Council may
amend the ODP by by-law, either through City- or The Vancouver ODP was built off Vancouver Plan,
privately-initiated amendment processes. which was shaped by extensive public consultation Monitoring progress
and collaboration with the local Nations, school
City-Initiated Amendments boards, and external agencies. The City is committed The Vancouver ODP includes an ambitious vision
to ensuring the ODP continues to reflect community for a city in greater balance with ecological
In addition to the City-led reviews and Plan updates
aspirations and priorities of the local Nations. systems, with complete, inclusive and resilient
described above, the City may initiate amendments to
neighbourhoods where everyone can thrive.
the Plan outside of the five-year cycle. These may be
The Vancouver Charter ensures that consultation occurs This vision will guide a significant amount
pursued as a result of more specific policy development
in advance of any amendment to the ODP, including of city-led work over the coming years, and
or a new area plan that triggers the need for an ODP
a public hearing at minimum. All amendments progress towards it will be tracked. An ODP
amendment (e.g., a change to a GLU designation on one
will require consultation with the school boards, monitoring program will establish key indicators
or more parcels). Council may wish to amend the Plan to
and consideration of consultation with a range of for working towards the desired outcomes of the
respond to changes such as, new major infrastructure
organizations and authorities, including the local Plan. Monitoring will inform the regular five-year
investments by senior government; changes in federal
Nations. Public engagement will be scaled to a level Plan reviews, and may include more frequent
and provincial government policy; and, shocks or
appropriate to the change being considered. Public reporting to inform work planning and policy.
stresses impacting the city, such as climate change,
engagement is anticipated to be more significant at
earthquakes, pandemics, and others. Additionally, the
five-year updates than at interim amendment points.
City could initiate a site-specific ODP amendment to
Any changes to the Vision, Foundational Principles, Big
change the GLU designation of a City-owned parcel of
Ideas, or the Urban Structure Strategy would also be
land.
shaped by more significant public engagement.
City Hall and City Hall Gardens
(Source: City of Vancouver)
Privately-Initiated Amendments
As described above, the Vancouver Charter establishes Review of amendment applications will include
that Council may not authorize or permit development evaluating the public interest and the balance of trade-
“contrary or at variance with” the ODP. As such, offs, such as:
rezoning applications that are inconsistent with their
• the scale and substantiveness of the proposed
GLU designations would be deemed inconsistent with
change;
the ODP and would need to submit an ODP amendment
application. • the degree to which the proposal presents an
opportunity to advance the Vision, Foundational
The ODP captures the long-range land use aspirations
Principles, Big Ideas, Directions, and policy
of the City and the GLU was built in alignment
objectives of the Plan;
with current policy to minimize the need for site-
specific, privately-initiated ODP amendments. It is • whether the amendment would result in a
acknowledged that the GLU does not yet reflect the substantial community benefit; and
higher-level aspirations outlined in the Urban Structure
• whether the proposal would trigger the need for an
Strategy and that future area planning will needed to
amendment to the Regional Growth Strategy, which
realize the Strategy. Rezoning applications that are
would entail an additional process and may or may
aligned with the Strategy but inconsistent with the
not be supportable by the regional board.
GLU will be considered inconsistent with the ODP. Such
applications will need to apply for an ODP amendment
The above is not an exhaustive list of considerations;
to facilitate the additional planning and consultation
procedures and considerations for review of
needed to contemplate such a change within the overall
amendment applications will be refined as ODP
goals of the ODP.
implementation advances.
192 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 193
noitatnemelpmI
6
traP
Part
6
ImplementationRegional Context Statement
The tables within this Regional Context Statement demonstrate how Vancouver’s Official Development Plan (ODP) is
consistent with the Regional Growth Strategy, Metro 2050, and advances regional goals.
This Regional Context Statement hereby permits Council consideration of amendments to the Vancouver ODP to
adjust the boundaries of regional land use designations within the Urban Containment Boundary or to adjust the
boundaries of Urban Centres or Frequent Transit Development Areas as allowable under the flexibility provisions of
sections 6.2.7 and 6.2.8 of Metro 2050.
Metro 2050 Targets
The following section outlines the ODP directions and policies that demonstrate Vancouver’s contribution to reaching
the regional federation’s regional growth strategy targets.
Metro 2050 Regional Targets
Goal 1 Create a Compact Urban Area Targets
Policy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information
1.1.9 b) Provide member jurisdiction Projections (population, All lands except Agricultural lands
APPENDIX A:
population, dwelling unit, and employment) - See Part 1, are within the Urban Containment
employment projections, with Introduction and Overview Boundary (UCB) in Vancouver. The
reference to guidelines contained in (Vancouver is the core of a growing Urban Structure Strategy directs
REGIONAL CONTEXT
Table 1 (Metro 2050), and region), and table below. growth to lands within the UCB. The
demonstrate how local plans will Generalized Land Use (GLU)
STATEMENT Accommodating growth within
work towards accommodating the Designations reflect underlying area
the Urban Containment Boundary
projected growth within the Urban plans and rezoning policies, and also
(UCB): see Part 4, Future Growth
Containment Boundary in focus growth within the UCB. See
(Map 2: Urban Structure Strategy,
accordance with the regional target table outlining projections below.
and Map 4: Generalized Land Use
of focusing 98% of residential
map), and Map A1: Regional Land
growth inside the Urban
Use Designations and Overlays,
Containment Boundary
showing the UCB.
2024 2030 2040 2050
Population 756,000 815,100 920,000 998,200
Dwelling Units 336,400 382,500 436,100 476,700
Employment 492,600 524,300 582,900 619,200
Based on Metro Vancouver Projections – high growth scenario
VANCOUVER ODP | 195
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementPolicy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information Policy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information
1.2.23 a) provide dwelling unit and Projections (population, The Urban Structure Strategy and GLU 1.2.23 b) ii) include policies and Focus and manage growth See above. Additionally, significant growth
employment projections that employment) – See Part 1, designations direct highest density uses actions for Urban Centres and and development in Urban is anticipated within the Metro Core Urban
indicate the member jurisdiction’s Introduction and Overview to the Metro Core/Broadway (the Metro Frequent Transit Development Areas Centres and Frequent Centre, the Municipal Town Centre and the
share of planned growth and (Vancouver is the core of a Core Urban Centre) and Municipal Town that: focus and manage growth Transit Development Areas smaller FTDAs shown on Map A1. The
contribute to achieving the growing region). Centre neighbourhoods. and development in Urban (FTDAs) – See Part 4, Future Urban Structure Strategy focuses growth
regional share of growth for Centres and Frequent Transit Growth, Map 2: Urban within these areas, and includes density
The Urban Structure Strategy also
Urban Centres and Frequent Development Areas consistent Structure Strategy, Table 1: targets aligned with the Table 3 in Metro
identifies Rapid Transit Areas as
Transit Development Areas as set Focused Growth – See Part 4, with guidelines set out in Table 3 Neighbourhood type 2050 (see Table 1: Neighbourhood type
neighbourhoods for focused growth.
out in Table 2 (Metro 2050; Dwelling Future Growth (Urban (Metro 2050; Guidelines for Urban guidelines, and Map A1: guidelines).
Parts of these are designated as Frequent
Unit and Employment Growth Structure Strategy and Centres and Frequent Transit Regional Land Use
Transit Development Areas (FTDAs) and
Targets for Urban Centres and Generalized Land Use Development Areas) and Designations and Overlays.
within Major Transit Growth Corridors, as
Frequent Transit Development Designations), and table demonstrate how that growth will
shown on Map A1: Regional Land Use
Areas) below. contribute to the Urban Centre and
Designations and Overlays. Per Provincial
Frequent Transit Development Area
Regional Targets for Residential legislation, new growth areas exist near
targets set out in Table 2 and Action
Growth by Location: transit in Transit Oriented Areas (TOAs)
1.2.12 (Metro 2050).
across the city, and are reflected in
• All Urban Centre Types: 40%
Generalized Land Use designations.
• Frequent Transit Development
Areas: 28% Due to their unique contexts (e.g.,
significant industrial lands, hazardous Goal 3 Protect the Environment, Address Climate Change, and Respond to Natural
Regional Targets for Employment and environmentally sensitive conditions, Hazards Targets
Growth by Location: and/or infrastructure constraints), not all
TOAs or Rapid Transit Areas have been Policy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information
• All Urban Centre Types: 50%
designated as FTDAs. Ongoing
• Frequent Transit Development implementation of the Vancouver ODP, 3.2.7 a) identify local ecosystem Increase area of lands Part 5 4. Ecology, identifies existing
Areas: 27% including area planning for Rapid Transit protection and tree canopy cover protected for nature – See ecological attributes and environmentally
Areas, may lead to the designation of new targets, and demonstrate how these Part 5 4. Ecology, Policies sensitive areas (ESAs). One of the ODP
FTDAs and will contribute to the Metro targets will contribute to the 4.1.1, 4.2.1, 4.2.5, 4.3.1, and directions (4.3) is to Protect Nature,
2050 dwelling unit and employment regional targets in Action 3.2.1: 4.3.2. through establishing and strengthening
targets. • increase the area of lands Increase regional tree guidelines, processes and requirements to
ensure existing ESAs are considered for
protected for nature from 40% canopy cover within the
enhancement and protection during
to 50% of the region’s land base Urban Containment
development.
by the year 2050; and
Boundary – See Part 5 4.
• increase the total regional tree Ecology, Policies 4.2.1, 4.2.3, Another direction (4.2), Make Space for
Urban Centres and FTDAs % Growth from 2025 to 2050
4.2.4 and 4.3.4. Nature, seeks to increase the area of lands
canopy cover within the Urban
Metro Core supporting nature through establishing
Dwellings 34% Containment Boundary from
and expanding an ecological network,
32% to 40% by the year 2050.
made up of corridors connecting existing
Jobs 54%
ecological attributes.
Oakridge Municipal Town Centre
Dwellings 4% Mapping ESAs was an important first step
in identifying lands for protection. City staff
Jobs 8% continue to work with Metro Vancouver on
initiatives supporting ecological protection
Frequent Transit Development Areas (2)
Dwellings 4% and will work towards identifying a target
for lands protected for nature appropriate
Jobs 2% to Vancouver’s urban context.
Through Policy 4.2.3, the City seeks to grow
the urban forest canopy coverage to 30
percent by 2050 through protecting,
managing and enhancing the urban forest.
Given the high proportion of dwelling and
job growth focused in Vancouver, the City’s
target of 30 percent tree canopy coverage
196 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 197
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statementis ambitious and will contribute towards
Metro 2050 Goal 1: Create a Compact Urban Area
regional goals of enhancing the canopy
coverage within the Urban Containment
Boundary. The Vancouver ODP focuses growth within the Urban Containment Boundary, particularly in Urban Centres and
Frequent Transit Development Areas (FTDAs). Implementation of the Vancouver ODP (e.g., through existing and
3.3.7 a) identify how local land use Greenhouse gas emission The City has a greenhouse gas emission future area plans and changes to zoning regulations) will create resilient, healthy, connected, and complete
and transportation policies will reduction targets – See Part 5 reduction target of 50 percent below 2007 communities that service the projected population, housing, and employment growth over the coming decades.
contribute to meeting the regional 3. Climate, policies 3.1.1, 3.1.2. levels by 2030, and carbon neutrality
greenhouse gas emission before 2050. This reflects a more rapid Goal 1 Targets
reduction target of 45% below decrease than the regional target, which
2010 levels by the year 2030 and would result in less emissions overall. Policy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information
achieving a carbon neutral region
Vancouver’s ODP refers to the City’s 1.1.9 b) Provide member jurisdiction population,
by the year 2050;
dwelling unit, and employment projections, with
Climate Emergency Action Plan, which
reference to guidelines contained in Table 1 (Metro
outlines emissions reduction pathways,
2050), and demonstrate how local plans will work
including advancing complete
towards accommodating the projected growth See Targets section above See Targets section above
communities and sustainable
within the Urban Containment Boundary in
transportation. The pathways in the plan
accordance with the regional target of focusing
are also embedded in the Urban Structure
98% of residential growth inside the Urban
Strategy, GLU designations, and Containment Boundary
Transportation and Utilities chapters of the
ODP. 1.2.23 a) provide dwelling unit and employment
projections that indicate the member jurisdiction’s
share of planned growth and contribute to
achieving the regional share of growth for
Goal 4 Provide Diverse and Affordable Housing Choices Target Urban Centres and Frequent Transit
Development Areas as set out in Table 2 (Metro
Policy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information
2050; Dwelling Unit and Employment Growth
Targets for Urban Centres and Frequent Transit
4.2.7 a) indicate how you will, within Part 5 1. Housing, policies Building on the Housing Vancouver
Development Areas)
the local context, contribute toward 1.1.2, 1.2.1, 1.2.2, 1.4.1, and Strategy, adopted in 2017 and continuously
the regional target of having at 1.6.1. implemented since, the Housing Regional Targets for Residential Growth by See Targets section above See Targets section above
least 15% of newly completed Vancouver 10-year housing targets were Location:
housing units built within all updated in June 2024, targeting 83,000 net
• All Urban Centre Types: 40%
Urban Centres and Frequent new approved housing units. Nearly three-
• Frequent Transit Development Areas: 28%
Transit Development Areas quarters (61,600) will be for renters, of
combined, to the year 2050, be which about 25 percent (15,500) will be at
Regional Targets for Employment Growth by
affordable rental housing units below-market rates. The majority of units
Location:
(recognizing that developing at below-market rates will meet Metro
affordable rental housing units in 2050’s definition of affordable rental and • All Urban Centre Types: 50%
transit-oriented locations count towards this goal. • Frequent Transit Development Areas: 27%
throughout the urban area is
The majority of new rental housing in
supported)
Vancouver is enabled and implemented
1.2.23 b) ii) include policies and actions for Urban
through area plans and applicable
Centres and
rezoning policies, both of which are
primarily located within Urban Centres and Frequent Transit Development Areas that: focus
FTDAs. and manage growth and development in Urban
Centres and Frequent Transit Development
Areas consistent with guidelines set out in
See Targets section above See Targets section above
Table 3 (Metro 2050; Guidelines for Urban Centres
and Frequent Transit Development Areas) and
demonstrate how that growth will contribute to
the Urban Centre and Frequent Transit
Development Area targets set out in Table 2 and
Action 1.2.12 (Metro 2050).
198 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 199
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementUrban Centres and Frequent Transit
Strategy 1.1: Contain urban development within the Urban Containment Boundary
Development Areas)
b) include policies and actions for Urban See below
Centres and Frequent Transit
Development Areas that:
i) identify the location, boundaries, and See Map A1: Regional Land Use Designations and
types of Urban Centres and Frequent Overlays
Transit Development Areas on a map that
is consistent with the guidelines set out in
Table 3 (Guidelines for Urban Centres and
Frequent Transit Development Areas) and
Map 4 (Metro 2050)
ii) focus and manage growth and
development in Urban Centres and
Frequent Transit Development Areas
consistent with guidelines set out in Table
3 (Metro 2050; Guidelines for Urban
Centres and Frequent Transit See Targets section above
Development Areas) and demonstrate
how that growth will contribute to the
Urban Centre and Frequent Transit
Development Area targets set out in Table
2 and Action 1.2.12 (Metro 2050
iii) encourage office development to locate in Policies FG1.4.2 and FG1.5.2 direct job space to the
Urban Centres through policies, economic Metro Core/Broadway and the Municipal Town Centre
development programs, or other financial neighbourhoods (both Urban Centres). The Business
incentives Districts GLU designation applies within the Metro
Core /Broadway area, affirms the regional role these
areas play as key centres for job space, and limits
residential uses. Policy 2.2.6 also protects capacity for
growth in office space in Business Districts such as
Downtown and Central Broadway.
iv) support modal shift by establishing or Vancouver eliminated minimum parking requirements
maintaining reduced residential and for all land uses in 2024. Transportation policy 5.1.5
commercial parking requirements in calls for additional policies that disincentivize driving
Urban Centres and FTDAs and consider (e.g., shared district parking, limiting parking supply).
the use of parking maximums Policy 5.2.7 calls for strategies that prioritize walking,
biking, transit, and public space on streets over
parking, while considering persons with disabilities
and others with essential parking needs.
v) consider the identification of appropriate Part 4, Future Growth, focuses significant growth
measures and neighbourhood plans to within the Metro Core and Municipal Town Centre, and
accommodate urban densification and also identifies Rapid Transit Areas that generally align
infill development in Urban Centres, with the Major Transit Growth Corridors of the RGS.
Frequent Transit Development Areas, This Urban Structure Strategy will inform future area
and, where appropriate, Major Transit planning. Growth is also enabled in TOAs. Policies
Growth Corridors in a resilient and throughout the ODP ensure that equity is considered,
equitable way (e.g., through community tenants are protected, and social connectedness is
vulnerability assessments, emergency supported.
services planning, tenant protection
9.1.1
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) Depict the Urban Containment Boundary See Map A1: Regional Land Use Designations and
on a map, generally consistent with the Overlays
Regional Land Use Designations map
(Metro 2050; Map 2)
b) Provide member jurisdiction population,
dwelling unit, and employment
projections, with reference to guidelines
contained in Table 1 (Metro 2050), and
demonstrate how local plans will work
towards accommodating the projected See Targets section above
growth within the Urban Containment
Boundary in accordance with the regional
target of focusing 98% of residential
growth inside the Urban Containment
Boundary
c) Include a commitment to liaise regularly Policy 10.1.4 commits the City to continued
with Metro Vancouver Liquid Waste coordination with Metro Vancouver Liquid Waste
Services and Metro Vancouver Water Services and Metro Vancouver Water Services.
Services to keep them apprised of the
scale and timeframe of major
development plans as well as specific
plans to separate combined sewers
d) Integrate land use planning policies with Policies in Part 5 2. Economy integrate economic
local and regional economic development development, including by supporting the Vancouver
strategies, particularly in the vicinity of Fraser Port Authority Land Use Plan (2.1.5), protecting
the port and airports, to minimize and intensifying industrial and employment areas
potential exposure of residents to (2.2.1), and protecting these areas from infringement
environmental noise and other harmful of residential uses (2.2.3).
impacts
Policies in Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk
Reduction seek to reduce risk and minimize exposure
of residents to environmental noise and other harmful
impacts (12.2.1-12.2.6).
Strategy 1.2: Focus growth in Urban Centres and Frequent Transit Development Areas
32.2.1
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) provide dwelling unit and employment
projections that indicate the member
jurisdiction’s share of planned growth and
contribute to achieving the regional share
See Targets section above
of growth for Urban Centres and
Frequent Transit Development Areas as
set out in Table 2 (Metro 2050; Dwelling
Unit and Employment Growth Targets for
200 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 201
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statementpolicies, and strategies to enhance
xi) take appropriate steps to avoid or Policy FG1.2.3 suggests allowing for more housing and
community social connectedness and
mitigate the negative health impacts of community infrastructure off arterial streets to reduce
adaptive capacity)
busy roadways on new or redeveloped exposure to harmful noise levels and poor air quality.
residential areas
vi) consider support for the provision of child Policies FG1.5.6, FG1.6.10, FG1.7.9 call for amenities Policy 5.2.3 calls for reimagining arterials to be safe
care spaces in Urban Centres and within different centre types, including childcare. Table and livable while efficiently moving people and goods,
Frequent Transit Development Areas 1 on neighbourhood type guidelines also calls for reducing the impacts of polluting vehicles and
childcare across a range of neighbourhood types. optimizing goods movement.
Policy 6.1.2 calls for integrating childcare in all suitable Policy 5.1.3 encourages locating shops, services,
areas of the city. businesses and housing along greenways.
Policy 12.2.6 calls for developments located in areas
vii) consider the implementation of green The ODP calls for natural climate solutions that buffer
exposed to environmental health hazards such as
infrastructure impacts of climate change, sequester carbon, and
noise and air emissions, including near major
improve biodiversity (policy 3.2.2) and includes
transportation corridors, to incorporate enhanced
resilience as a foundational principle.
construction techniques and thoughtful site design,
In alignment with the City’s Rain City Strategy and including consideration of separation and buffering
building on green infrastructure successes in the city, where appropriate.
the ODP calls for green infrastructure to be expanded
via expanding greenways (5.2.4), implementing a blue c) Include policies for General Urban lands See below
green network of park-like streets (4.2.1, 10.2.2), and that:
integrating within public rights-of-way and water-
adaptive public spaces (10.2.1, 10.3.1), with a particular i) identify General Urban lands and their See Map A1: Regional Land Use Designations and
emphasis on integrating green space for rainwater boundaries on a map generally consistent Overlays
and urban drainage in the Metro Core/Broadway area with Map 2 (Metro 2050)
(FG1.4.7).
ii) exclude new non-residential Major Trip- The Urban Structure Strategy of the Vancouver ODP
viii) focus infrastructure and amenity Part 6. Implementation, identifies that the City will Generating uses, as defined in the reinforces the Metro Core/Broadway as a central area
investments (such as public works and develop infrastructure and amenity plans to guide Regional Context Statement, from those for major office, hotel, cultural and retail-commercial
civic and recreation facilities) in Urban public investment to service growth and manage portions of General Urban lands outside space (FG1.4.2) as well as arts and cultural spaces
Centres and Frequent Transit assets. These plans will be informed by the Urban of Urban Centres and Frequent Transit (FG1.4.8). Other Urban Structure Strategy policies seek
Development Areas, and at appropriate Development Areas and direct new non- to create complete neighbourhoods (e.g.,
Structure Strategy and growth projections of the ODP,
locations within Major Transit Growth residential Major Trip-Generating uses to accommodating amenities within Rapid Transit Areas
as well as existing levels of service, infrastructure
Corridors Urban Centres and Frequent Transit and neighbourhood centres - FG1.6.10, FG1.7.9), but
deficits, and financial capacity. Policy FG1.10.2 also
Development Areas do not focus major trip-generating uses outside of
calls for service improvements to be prioritized for
Urban Centres and FTDAs.
areas of the city with the highest unmet need.
iii) encourage infill and intensification (e.g., The Urban Structure Strategy of the ODP (policies
ix) support the provision of community Policy FG1.4.3 prioritizes supporting small businesses
row houses, townhouses, mid-rise FG1.6.2, FG1.7.2, FG1.8.2, FG1.9.1 and FG1.9.2) calls for
services and spaces for non-profit and non-profits to remain in downtown
apartments, laneway houses) in intensifying Missing Middle Housing (multiplex,
organizations neighbourhoods.
appropriate locations within walking townhouse and low-rise housing) in Multiplex Areas
Policies throughout the ODP call for support for distance of the Frequent Transit Network; and Villages (as well as allowing these housing options
affordable spaces for small businesses, community- in higher density neighbourhoods). This vision is
serving spaces, and non-profit organizations (e.g., echoed in Map 5: Housing Opportunities.
2.3.3, 2.3.4, 8.2.4, as well as community-serving space
The Generalized Land Use (GLU) map allows multiplex
policies in Part 5 7. Community Infrastructure), as well
and townhouse forms in all Residential areas, and low-
as the provision of services and supports to people
rise in many. Area Planning is underway for Villages,
experiencing and at risk of homelessness (1.3.1).
and the GLU will be updated to reflect the outcome of
that planning process when it is complete.
x) consider, where Urban Centres and Policy 2.2.1 protects and supports intensification of
Frequent Transit Development Areas industrial and employment areas.
iv) encourage neighbourhood-serving Policies FG1.5.3, FG1.7.4, FG1.8.3, FG1.9.2 encourage
overlap with Employment lands, higher
Policy 2.2.6 calls for additional office spaces and hotels commercial uses local-serving shops, streets and areas for complete
density forms and intensification of
in the Downtown as well as Central Broadway (with the neighbourhoods. The GLU supports retail, office, and
commercial and light industrial
Metro Core Urban Centre). compatible service uses as complementary uses in
Residential areas.
202 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 203
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statementd) with regards to Actions 1.2.15 and 1.2.23 Non-residential major trip-generating uses are d) respond to health and climate change- See below
c) ii), include a definition of “non- understood to mean significant office or business park related risks by providing equitable
residential Major Trip Generating uses” uses, outlet shopping malls, post-secondary access to:
that includes, but is not limited to, the institutions, and large-format entertainment venues.
following uses: office or business parks, i) recreation facilities Policy 7.3.1 calls for equitable delivery of services by
outlet shopping malls, post-secondary protecting, renewing, and upgrading facilities and
institutions, and large-format assets (e.g., community centres, recreational facilities,
entertainment venues and public washrooms) in alignment with growth.
Policy FG1.10.2 also prioritizes equity-focused risk
e) consider the identification of new Map A1: Regional Land Use Designations and Overlays
reduction and service improvement planning in areas
Frequent Transit Development Areas in identifies the FTDAs within the city. The new FTDA site
of the city with the highest unmet need that often face
appropriate locations within Major Transit is within a Major Transit Growth Corridor. Additional
the highest risk to any hazards.
Growth Corridors, as part of the and/or expanded FTDAs will be considered as
development of new or amended area or implementation of the Urban Structure Strategy
ii) green spaces and public spaces (e.g., Policy 9.2.2 prioritizes underserved areas and
neighbourhood plans, or other through area planning continues.
parks, trails, urban forests, public communities when identifying parks and public space
community planning initiatives
squares, etc.) projects and investments.
f) consider long-term growth and Policy 5.3.1 calls for collaboration with the local Policy 9.2.4 calls for equitable delivery of park services
transportation planning coordination with Nations to improve transportation options and transit by protecting, acquiring and renewing parks in
adjacent municipalities, First Nations, connections to Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil- alignment with evolving needs.
TransLink, and Metro Vancouver for Waututh developments and First Nation reserves.
Part 5 4. Ecology includes an Ecological Network Vision
transit corridors that run through or
Policy 5.3.3 supports cross-boundary regional of Environmentally Sensitive Areas and ecological
along two or more adjacent jurisdictions
collaboration on transit. corridors, and policy directions to make space for
nature, including policy 4.4.2 to ensure the network
Strategy 1.3: Develop resilient, healthy, connected, and complete communities with a and natural areas are equitably distributed and
accessible to every resident in Vancouver, while also
range of services and amenities
balancing recreational, cultural and environmental
needs.
Policy 5.2.4 also calls for amplifying the greenway
network as car-light and car-free corridors, providing
public spaces with green infrastructure functions.
iii) safe and inviting walking, cycling, and Part 5 5. Transportation, includes policies on creating
rolling environments, including resting people-first streets, such as policy 5.2.1 and 5.2.2,
spaces with tree canopy coverage, for all which call for providing greater connections to and
ages and abilities through neighbourhoods and to key destinations, to
support safety and comfort for walking, rolling, and
biking. Policy 5.2.4 calls for amplifying and intensifying
the greenway network as car-light to car-free corridors
for active transportation and recreation, providing a
high-quality, continuous experience with public
spaces, ecological and green infrastructure functions.
Policy FG1.4.7 also calls for improved tree canopy
within the Metro Core/Broadway area, especially in the
DTES and other areas that are currently deficient.
Part 5 4. Ecology includes an Ecological Network Vision
that is strongly aligned with regional and local
greenway networks, and notes opportunities to build
this network through transforming road space.
e) support the inclusion of community Part 4 Future Growth, Urban Structure Strategy
gardens (at-grade, rooftop, or on policies support improving food access across
balconies), grocery stores and farmers’ neighbourhoods.
7.3.1
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) support compact, mixed use, transit, Part 5 5. Transportation includes a range of policies
walking, cycling and rolling-oriented focused on supporting a shift towards sustainable
communities transportation modes, including through land use and
urban design, and people-first streets.
b) locate and support community, arts, The Urban Structure Strategy in Part 4, Future Growth,
cultural, recreational, institutional, aligns density with transit. The Strategy calls for a
medical/health, social service, education range of amenities and services in Metro
and child care facilities, and local serving Core/Broadway, the Municipal Town Centre, Rapid
retail uses in Urban Centres or areas with Transit Areas, as well as Neighbourhood Centres and
good access to transit more local-serving shops and services in Villages (e.g.,
FG1.4.8, FG1.5.3, FG1.5.6, FG1.6.10, FG1.7.4, FG1.7.9,
FG1.8.3, FG1.8.4). These uses are in turn permitted
through the Generalized Land Use Designations that
apply in these areas.
c) provide and encourage public spaces and Part 5 9. Parks and Public Space, includes a range of
other place-making amenities and policies around growing and enhancing the network of
facilities (e.g., community gardens, parks and public space (policies in Direction 9.3),
playgrounds, gathering places, etc.) in designed and programmed with various features and
new and established neighbourhoods, for amenities.
all ages, abilities, and seasons, to support
social connections and engagement
204 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 205
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementStrategy 1.4: Protect Rural lands from urban development
3.4.1
yciloP
markets to support food security, and Part 5 11. Food Systems, addresses improving food
local production, distribution and access, enhancing food production, supporting and
consumption of healthy food, in particular strengthening food supply chains, and leveraging new
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
where they are easily accessible to development and community infrastructure to
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
housing and transit services integrate food assets.
a) identify Rural lands and their boundaries N/A
Policies 9.3.1 and 9.5.4 also speak to supporting food
on a map generally consistent with Map 2
security on public lands.
(Metro 2050)
f) consider, when preparing new Policy FG1.10.2 calls for prioritizing equity-focused risk
b) limit development to a scale, form, and N/A
neighbourhood and area plans, the reduction and service improvement planning in areas
density consistent with the intent for the
mitigation of significant negative social of the city with the highest unmet need that often face Rural land use designation, and that is
and health impacts, such as through the the highest risk to any hazards.
compatible with on-site sewer servicing
use of formal health and social impact
Policy 3.2.5 suggests consideration of public health
assessment methods in neighbourhood
impacts of a changing climate in the development and c) specify the allowable density and form, N/A
design and major infrastructure
renewal of the built environment. consistent with Action 1.4.1, for land uses
investments
within the Rural regional land use
Policies in Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk
designation
Reduction seek to reduce risk and minimize health
impacts from hazards (12.2.1-12.2.6).
d) prioritize and support agricultural uses N/A
within the Agricultural Land Reserve, and
g) provide design guidance for existing and Various Urban Structure Strategy policies call for
where appropriate, support agricultural
new neighbourhoods to promote social improvements to public realm in different
uses outside of the Agricultural Land
connections, universal accessibility, crime neighbourhood types. Policy FG1.3.6 calls for design
Reserve
prevention through environmental guidelines to promote placemaking, livability and
design, and inclusivity while considering sustainability. Part 5 9. Parks and Public Space,
e) support the protection, enhancement, N/A
the impacts of these strategies on includes policies on inclusive public life, as well as
restoration, and expansion of ecosystems
identified marginalized members of the universal, safe design. Part 5 5. Transportation
identified on Map 11 (Metro 2050) to
community includes policies on people-first streets that integrate
maintain ecological integrity, enable
universal accessibility.
ecosystem connectivity, increase natural
carbon sinks and enable adaptation to the
h) consider where appropriate, Reconciliation is a foundational principle of the
impacts of climate change
opportunities to incorporate recognition Vancouver ODP, and there are policies throughout
of Indigenous and other cultures into the multiple chapters on advancing Indigenous cultural
planning of Urban Centres, FTDAs, and visibility in the public realm.
other local centres
Policy 7.1.4 in Part 5 7. Community Infrastructure calls
for partnerships and statements of cultural
significance for any City-delivered and City-supported
facilities located in areas of existing cultural redress
initiatives and future redress initiatives.
Part 5 8. Arts, Culture and Heritage, calls for
meaningful and respectful stewardship of tangible and
intangible heritage resources, in particular supporting
Indigenous and equity-denied communities’
perspectives and approaches. Policy 8.3.1 prioritizes
and supports the local Nations’ visibility, voice and
cultural practices across the city through public art,
revitalization of hən̓ q̓ əmin̓ əm and Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh
languages, cultural spaces and programming,
educational initiatives, and design, as led by the local
Nations. Policy 8.3.3 calls for expanded planning tools
to protect tangible and intangible heritage assets,
heritage values, and historic places with a focus on
ethno-cultural community areas and cultural redress
areas.
206 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 207
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementStrategy 2.2 Protect the supply and enhance the efficient use of Industrial land
9.2.2
yciloP
Metro 2050 Goal 2: Support a Sustainable Economy
Section Policy Text Applicable ODP Policies
The Vancouver ODP identifies industrial and employment areas for protection (including all regionally-designated
Industrial lands), intensification, and expansion. Policies of the ODP support creating an economy that works for all, Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
providing space for economic opportunities and support for local workers, employers, and entrepreneurs. The ODP
directs jobs towards Urban Centres and FTDAs, as well as other transit-oriented locations, with local-serving a) identify the Industrial and Employment lands
See Map A1: Regional Land Use Designations and
commercial uses throughout all neighbourhoods. and their boundaries on a map generally
Overlays.
consistent with Map 7 (Metro 2050)
Strategy 2.1 Promote land development patterns that support a diverse regional
b) identify Trade-Oriented lands, if applicable, with No trade-oriented lands are identified in the
economy and employment opportunities close to where people live
a defined set of permitted uses that support ODP. However, policy 2.1.5 outlines support for
inter-regional, provincial, national, and the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority Land Use
international trade (e.g., logistics, warehouses, Plan to aid industrial goods movement and
distribution centres, transportation and viability of logistical lands and infrastructure.
intermodal terminals) and location needs (e.g., Policy 2.2.1 directs the City to protect and
large and flat sites, proximity to highway, port, intensify industrial and employment areas, and
or rail infrastructure) on a map consistent with 2.2.2 calls for transportation planning to
the goals in the regional growth strategy. Strata consider and support the needs of industrial
and/or small lot subdivisions on these lands goods movement.
should not be permitted
To enhance safety and reduce pressure on
goods movement infrastructure, policy 12.2.5
calls for development near rail facilities to
include design solutions and incorporate risk
mitigation measures tailored to the unique local
context to address potential hazards from
heavy passenger and freight rail, as well as
health and safety concerns such as noise,
vibration, and emissions.
c) include policies for Industrial lands that: See below
i) consistently define, support, and protect Part 4, Future Growth, includes an Industrial
industrial uses, as defined in Metro 2050, in and Employment GLU designation, and restricts
municipal plans and bylaws, and ensure that residential uses within this designation.
non-industrial uses are not permitted
Map 6: Employment Area Opportunities,
Policies 2.2.1 and 2.2.3 also support protection
and intensification of industrial and
employment areas.
See also Zoning and Development By-law for
further details.
ii) support appropriate and related accessory The Industrial and Employment GLU
uses, such as limited-scale ancillary commercial designation allows a suite of complementary
spaces, and caretaker units uses such as certain retail uses and uses
ancillary to the business on the properties.
Policy 2.2.3 calls for modernizing and increasing
flexibility of permitted uses in industrial areas
and ensuring no net loss of industrial
development capacity within the city.
See also Zoning and Development By-law for
further details.
01.1.2
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) include policies to support appropriate Part 4, Future Growth, Urban Structure Strategy
economic activities, as well as context- includes policies supporting jobs in various
appropriate built form for Urban Centres, neighbourhood types, including intensifying,
Frequent Transit Development Areas, Industrial enhancing, and expanding job space for major
lands, and Employment lands employment, major office, hotel, cultural, and
retail-commercial uses in the Metro
Core/Broadway area (FG1.4.2), and significantly
increasing the levels of regional employment
within the Municipal Town Centre (FG1.5.2). The
Business Districts designation protects key jobs
lands for commercial uses, and commercial uses
are supported through all neighbourhoods.
Employment and Industrial lands are protected
for industrial and employment uses, and policies
in Part 5, 2. Economy, look to intensify, expand
and enhance employment areas in the city (e.g.,
policy 2.2.1 and 2.2.3).
b) support the development and expansion of See above. Additionally, Map 6 and policy 2.2.1
large-scale office and retail uses in Urban and 2.2.3 in Part 5, 2. Economy identify business
Centres, and lower-scale uses in Frequent districts and industrial and employment lands for
Transit Development Areas through policies protection and intensification within the Metro
such as: zoning that reserves land for Core/Broadway area. Detailed regulations on
commercial uses, density bonus provisions to zoning, density, and development charges can
encourage office development, variable be found in different by-laws (e.g., the Zoning
development cost charges, and/or other and Development By-law).
incentives
c) discourage the development and expansion of The Urban Structure Strategy and GLU
major commercial uses outside of Urban designations, in Part 4, Future Growth, generally
Centres and Frequent Transit Development direct major commercial uses to Urban Centres
Areas and that discourage the development of and FTDAs, as described above. The GLU map
institutional land uses outside of Urban Centres
designates large campuses and all public school
and Frequent Transit Development Areas
sites as Institutional, and enables community-
serving institutional uses (e.g., public schools
and childcare facilities) in most GLU
designations, as part of working towards
complete neighbourhoods.
208 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 209
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statementsuch as interface designs, buffering standards, emissions to incorporate enhanced
iii) exclude uses that are not consistent with the The Industrial and Employment GLU
or tree planting, to minimize potential land use construction techniques and thoughtful site
intent of Industrial lands and not supportive of designation protects these lands for
conflicts between industrial and sensitive land design, including consideration of separation
industrial activities, such as medium and large manufacturing, service, transportation and
uses, and to improve resilience to the impacts and buffering where appropriate.
format retail uses, residential uses, and stand- storage, utility and communication, wholesale,
of climate change
alone office uses, other than ancillary uses, and office uses. Policy 2.2.4 encourages appropriate design of
where deemed necessary any intensification or development of industrial
Policy 2.2.3 calls for modernizing and increasing
lands near environmentally sensitive areas.
flexibility of permitted uses in industrial areas
and ensuring no net loss of industrial
x) do not permit strata and/or small lot N/A
development capacity within the city.
subdivisions on identified Trade-Oriented lands
See also Zoning and Development By-law for
further details. d) include policies for Employment lands that: See below
iv) encourage improved utilization and increased See above, as well as policies 2.2.1, 2.2.3, 2.2.5, i) support a mix of industrial, small scale The Industrial and Employment land use
intensification/densification of Industrial lands and 2.2.8 on protecting and expanding commercial and office, and other related designation in Part 4, Future Growth, protects
for industrial activities, including the removal of industrial and employment areas, and policy employment uses, while maintaining support these lands for commercial and industrial uses.
any unnecessary municipal policies or 2.5.3 on modernizing land use policy and for the light industrial capacity of the area,
Part 5 2. Economy, supports intensification and
regulatory barriers related to development building regulations to facilitate emerging including opportunities for the potential
expansion of employment areas (policies 2.2.1
form and density business models. densification/intensification of industrial
to 2.2.8).
activities, where appropriate
v) review and update parking and loading The City’s Parking By-law no longer includes See also Zoning and Development By-law for
requirements to reflect changes in industrial minimum parking requirements for industrial further details.
forms and activities, ensure better integration uses.
with the surrounding character, and reflect ii) allow large and medium format retail, where Part 4, Future Growth, includes an Industrial
improvements to transit service, in an effort to appropriate, provided that such development and Employment GLU designation, and allows
avoid the over- supply of parking will not undermine the broad objectives of the certain retail uses, including large format retail,
regional growth strategy in regionally-designated Employment lands.
vi) explore municipal industrial strategies or Part 5 2. Economy, includes a range of policies
See also Zoning and Development By-law for
initiatives that support economic growth relating to industrial strategies and economic
further details.
objectives with linkages to land use planning development, such as policies on supporting
Vancouver to continue to thrive as the regional
iii) support the objective of concentrating larger- Part 4, Future Growth, Urban Structure Strategy
job centre, protecting and expanding
scale commercial, higher density forms of reinforces the Metro Core/Broadway as a
employment and industrial areas, creating
employment, and other Major Trip-Generating central area for major office, hotel, cultural and
affordable economic spaces, encouraging local-
uses in Urban Centres, and local-scale uses in retail-commercial space (FG1.4.2) as well as arts
serving and small businesses, creating a
Frequent Transit Development Areas and cultural spaces (FG1.4.8). Other Urban
supportive business environment, and
Structure Strategy policies seek to create
advancing accessible and equitable economic
complete neighbourhoods (e.g.,
opportunities.
accommodating amenities within Rapid Transit
Areas and neighbourhood centres - FG1.6.10,
vii) provide infrastructure and services in support Policy 2.1.5 supports the Vancouver Fraser Port
FG1.7.9), but do not focus major trip-generating
of existing and expanding industrial activities Authority Land Use Plan to aid industrial goods
uses outside of Urban Centres and FTDAs. The
movement and viability of logistical lands and
Business Districts GLU designation supports
infrastructure. Policy 2.2.2 calls for
regional role of these areas (within the Metro
transportation planning that considers and
Core Urban Centre) as key centres for jobs
supports the needs of industrial goods
space, supporting office and uses and not
movement.
establishing a height limit.
viii) support the unique locational and See above. Additionally, policy 2.1.6 calls for
iv) support higher density forms of commercial Policy 2.2.1 calls for protecting and intensifying
infrastructure needs of rail-oriented, working with partners to realize the potential of
and light industrial development where industrial/employment areas to provide spaces
waterfront, and trade-oriented industrial uses the Central Waterfront District as a
Employment lands are located within Urban for production, distribution, and repair activities
transportation hub, tourism and hotel node,
Centres or Frequent Transit Development that cannot take place elsewhere.
and employment area.
Areas, and permit employment and service
The Urban Structure Strategy directs highest
activities consistent with the intent of Urban
ix) consider the preparation of urban design Policy 12.2.6 calls for developments exposed to densities to the Metro Core/Broadway and the
Centres or Frequent Transit Development
guidelines for Industrial land edge planning, environmental hazards such as noise and air Municipal Town Centre. High densities are also
Areas, while low employment density and low
210 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 211
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementStrategy 2.3 Protect the supply of agricultural land and strengthen Agricultural
viability
21.3.2
yciloP
transit generating uses, possibly with goods supported in Rapid Transit Areas, including
movement needs and impacts, are located intensification of employment lands (e.g., policy
elsewhere FG1.6.3 calls for ground floor retail-commercial
and office above close to the transit station and
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
exploring opportunities to introduce compatible
industrial uses). Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) specify the Agricultural lands within their See Map A1: Regional Land Use Designations
v) do not permit residential uses, except for: Part 4, Future Growth, Industrial and
jurisdiction, denoting those within the and Overlays for lands with the regional
Employment land use designation description
• an accessory caretaker unit; or Agricultural Land Reserve, on a map generally Agricultural designation, and Map 6:
allows for consideration of limited residential
• limited residential uses (with an emphasis on consistent with Map 8 (Metro 2050) Employment Area Opportunities, for the
uses in the circumstances described in the
affordable, rental units) on lands within 200 boundaries of the Agricultural Land Reserve.
regional plan.
m of a rapid transit station and located
See also Zoning and Development By-law for b) consider policies and programs that increase Part 5 11. Food Systems, includes policies
within Urban Centres or Frequent Transit
further details. markets and the distribution of local food in calling for improved food access, including via
Development Areas, provided that the
urban areas to strengthen the viability of farmers markets (11.1.1), as well as policies
residential uses are located only on the
agriculture and increase availability of local supporting the strengthening of Vancouver’s
upper floors of buildings with commercial
food for all residents food supply chains (11.1.3).
and light industrial uses, where appropriate
and subject to the consideration of municipal Policy 2.6.1 encourages a wide variety of
markets in the city, including food markets, to
objectives and local context.
serve diverse vendors, customers, and residents
across the livelihood continuum.
e) include policies to assist existing and new Part 5 3. Climate, focuses on eliminating carbon
businesses in reducing their greenhouse gas pollution from all sources, including emissions c) include policies that protect the supply of See below
emissions, maximizing energy efficiency, and from businesses. Regarding mitigating impacts Agricultural land and strengthen agriculture
mitigating impacts on ecosystems to ecosystems, policy 2.2.4 seeks to ensure viability including those that:
intensification of industrial lands near
Environmentally Sensitive Areas responds to the i) assign appropriate land use designations to Part 4, Future Growth, assigns an Agricultural
ecological vision. Part 5 4. Ecology, further protect Agricultural land for future generations GLU designation to agricultural lands, and
protects Environmentally Sensitive Areas (from and discourage land uses on Agricultural lands protects these lands for agricultural uses.
commercial uses as well as other types of that do not directly support and strengthen
development). Policy 10.4.2 encourages zero- Agricultural viability
waste practices for businesses.
ii) encourage the consolidation of small parcels Part 5 11. Food Systems supports food
f) include policies that assist existing and new Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction, and discourage the subdivision and production within agricultural lands as well as
businesses to adapt to the impacts of climate identifies lands subject to hazardous conditions, fragmentation of Agricultural land within urban areas, given Vancouver’s
change and reduce their exposure to natural many of which are amplified by climate change, urbanized context and fragmentation of the
hazards risks, such as those identified within and provides policies for guiding development limited agricultural lands within the city.
the regional growth strategy (Table 5; Metro (commercial, industrial, and other) on these
2050) lands. iii) support climate change adaptation including: Agricultural land in Vancouver is in the
floodplain, and flood construction level
The Resilient Vancouver Strategy, referred to in • monitoring storm water, flooding, and sea
requirements apply to residential uses (see
the ODP, includes more detailed
level rise impacts on Agricultural land,
Vancouver Building By-law). Policy 11.1.5 calls
recommendations for supporting businesses as
• implementing flood construction
for addressing climate change through food
part of resilient neighbourhoods, such as by
requirements for residential uses, and
system interventions.
convening business recovery roundtables and
• maintaining and improving drainage and
creating neighbourhood resilience labs for Additional policies call for action on climate
irrigation infrastructure that support
residents and businesses. change adaptation and improvements of
Agricultural production, where appropriate
policies and regulations over time (policy 3.2.1
and in collaboration with other governments
and 12.2.2).
and agencies
iv) protect the integrity of Agricultural land by Part 5 11. Food Systems supports food
requiring edge planning along the Urban production within agricultural lands as well as
Containment Boundary and adjacent to within urban areas, given Vancouver’s
Agricultural operations through activities such
212 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 213
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementMetro 2050 Goal 3: Protect the Environment, Address Climate Change,
and Respond to Natural Hazards
The Vancouver ODP includes resilience as a foundational principle to the Plan, and weaves resilience-related
policies throughout all chapters. The ODP also includes Climate chapter focused on reducing carbon pollution and
promoting climate adaptation. The Ecology chapter supports ecosystem protection and resilience, through
identifying Environmentally Sensitive Areas, establishing an Ecological Network Vision to restore connectivity, and
building a policy framework to protect and make space for nature. The Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction
chapter identifies lands subject to hazardous conditions, many of which are amplified by climate change, and sets
up policy to continue to carefully manage development on these lands, incorporate hazardous lands into area
planning, and adapt at-risk buildings and infrastructure.
Goal 3 Targets
Policy with Target Applicable ODP Policies Supplementary Information
3.2.7 a) identify local ecosystem protection and See Targets section above See Targets section above
tree canopy cover targets, and demonstrate how
these targets will contribute to the regional targets
in Action 3.2.1:
• increase the area of lands protected for nature
from 40% to 50% of the region’s land base by
the year 2050; and
• increase the total regional tree canopy cover
within the Urban Containment Boundary from
32% to 40% by the year 2050.
3.3.7 a) identify how local land use and See Targets section above See Targets section above
transportation policies will contribute to meeting
the regional greenhouse gas emission
reduction target of 45% below 2010 levels by
the year 2030 and achieving a carbon neutral
region by the year 2050;
Strategy 3.1: Protect and enhance Conservation and Recreation lands
9.1.3
yciloP
as screening, physical buffers, roads, or urbanized context and fragmentation of the
Development Permit area requirements limited agricultural lands within the city.
v) demonstrate support for economic Policy 11.1.1 supports food-related retail and
development opportunities for Agricultural services. Policy 11.1.3 supports strengthening
operations that are farm related uses, benefit food supply chains.
from close proximity to farms, and enhance
primary Agricultural production as defined by
the Agricultural Land Commission Act
vi) align policies and regulations, where applicable, See Zoning and Development By-law.
with the Minister's Bylaw Standards and
Agricultural Land Commission legislation and
regulations
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) identify Conservation and Recreation lands and See Map A1: Regional Land Use Designation and
their boundaries on a map generally consistent Overlays.
with Map 2 (Metro 2050)
b) include policies that support the protection and See below
enhancement of lands with a Conservation and
Recreation land use designation, which may
include the following uses:
i) drinking water supply areas In Part 4, Future Growth, areas with the regional
designation of Conservation and Recreation are
ii) environmental conservation areas designated Parks and Open Spaces. Permitted
uses include parks and playgrounds and
31.3.2
yciloP
Section Policy Supplementary Information
In partnership with other agencies and Policy 2.1.1 encourages diversification of jobs
organizations, support Agricultural awareness and sectors. Policies in Part 5 11. Food Systems,
and promote the importance of the Agricultural support the development of an equitable and
industry, the importance of protecting resilient food system, including by supporting
Agricultural land, and the value of local local food production.
Agricultural products and experiences
214 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 215
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementStrategy 3.2: Protect, enhance, restore, and connect ecosystems
7.2.3
yciloP
compatible cultural and recreation uses.
iii) wildlife management areas and ecological
Residential development is not permitted in this
reserves
designation. Conservation and Recreation lands
Section Policy Text Applicable ODP Policies
are designated as Environmentally Sensitive
iv) forests Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
Areas in the Ecology chapter. This designation
recognizes the value of these and other parks
a) identify local ecosystem protection and tree
v) wetlands (e.g., freshwater lakes, ponds,
and open spaces for local ecosystem protection.
canopy cover targets, and demonstrate how bogs, fens, estuarine, marine, freshwater, See Targets section above
and intertidal ecosystems) these targets will contribute to the regional
targets in Action 3.2.1
vi) riparian areas (i.e., the areas and vegetation
surrounding wetlands, lakes, streams, and
b) refer to Map 11 (Metro 2050) or more detailed Part 5 4. Ecology includes a map of
local ecological and cultural datasets and Environmentally Sensitive Areas. This map
rivers)
include policies that: includes all areas mapped in Map 11 in Metro
vii) ecosystems not covered above that may be
2050 - Metro Vancouver’s Sensitive Ecosystem
Inventory - and additional natural areas
vulnerable to climate change and natural hazard
identified from a city-wide ecological inventory
impacts, or that provide buffers to climate
change impacts or natural hazard impacts for
and assessment.
communities
i) support the protection, enhancement, and Part 5 4. Ecology, includes a range of policies
restoration of ecosystems through measures supporting protection and enhancement of
viii) uses within those lands that are appropriately
such as land acquisition, density bonusing, Environmentally Sensitive Areas and the
located, scaled, and consistent with the intent of
development permit requirements, subdivision restoration of ecosystems and ecosystem
the designation, including:
design, conservation covenants, land trusts, and connectivity through an Ecological Network
o major parks and outdoor recreation areas; tax exemptions Vision (policies 4.1.1, 4.2.1, 4.2.3, 4.2.4, 4.2.5,
o education, research and training facilities, 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 4.3.3, 4.3.5, 4.3.6).
and associated uses that serve conservation
and/or recreation users; ii) seek to acquire, restore, enhance, and protect The Ecological Network Vision provides a
o commercial uses, tourism activities, and lands, in collaboration with adjacent member foundation to protect, connect and restore
public, cultural, or community amenities; jurisdictions and other partners, that will enable ecosystems. Part 5 4. Ecology, includes policies
ecosystem connectivity in a regional green on collaborating with local Nations on ecological
o limited agricultural use, primarily soil-based;
infrastructure network priorities (policies 4.1.2, 4.3.5, 4.4.1), as well as
and
collaborating across jurisdictions in complex
o land management activities needed to
areas such as marine and shoreline
minimize vulnerability / risk to climate
environments (policy 4.1.4). The Ecological
change impacts
Network Vision, as well as the Blue Green
Network, includes consideration of ecological
c) Include policies that: See below assets in adjacent municipalities, is informed by
Metro Vancouver's Sensitive Ecosystem
i) protect the integrity of lands with a Conservation and Recreation lands are Inventory and Ecosystem Connectivity
Conservation and Recreation regional land use protected for parks and open space uses Evaluation and aligns with efforts to improve
designation from activities in adjacent areas by through their GLU designation and through regional ecological connectivity.
considering wildland interface planning, and their inclusion as Environmentally Sensitive
introducing measures such as physical buffers Areas. Policies 4.3.1 to 4.3.6 seek to protect iii) discourage or minimize the fragmentation of Policies 4.2.5 and 4.3.1 encourage enhancement
or development permit requirements ecosystems and manage growth around them. ecosystems through low impact development and restoration of ecological features on private
practices that enable ecosystem connectivity property to support biodiversity and
ii) encourage the consolidation of small parcels, Conservation and Recreation lands in Vancouver connectivity across natural areas.
and discourage subdivision and fragmentation are predominantly publicly-owned and not at
of lands with a Conservation and Recreation risk of subdivision or fragmentation. iv) indicate how the interface between ecosystems Policies 4.1.1 and 4.3.1 call for the creation of
regional land use designation. and other land uses will be managed to additional policies and regulations to protect
maintain ecological integrity using edge Environmentally Sensitive Areas. Policy 4.2.5
planning, and measures such as physical also calls for strengthened policies and
buffers, or development permit requirements. regulations to create naturally managed areas
on private property, to enhance connectivity.
c) Include policies that: See below
216 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 217
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementStrategy 3.3: Advance land use, infrastructure, and human settlement patterns that
reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, create carbon storage
opportunities, and improve air quality
7.3.3
yciloP
i) support the consideration of natural assets and Part 5 4. Ecology supports consideration of
ecosystem services in land use decision-making natural assets and ecosystem services in land
and land management practices use decision-making, including direction to
embed ecosystems in planning (4.1.1, 4.2.5,
4.3.1), and policy to develop and incorporate
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
economic valuation of ecosystem system
Adopt Regional Context Statements that: services into city financial processes (4.3.6).
a) identify how local land use and transportation
ii) enable the retention and expansion of urban Policies 4.2.3 and 4.2.4 call for expansion of the
policies will contribute to meeting the regional
forests using various tools, such as local tree urban forest canopy cover, as adopted under
greenhouse gas emission reduction target of
canopy cover targets, urban forest management the City’s Urban Forest Strategy, and use of tools See Targets section above
45% below 2010 levels by the year 2030 and
strategies, tree regulations, development such as zoning, servicing and subdivision by-
achieving a carbon neutral region by the year
permit requirements, land acquisition, street laws, and upgraded street designs to provide
2050
tree planting, and reforestation or restoration more space for permeability, quality soil, and
policies, with consideration of resilience increased tree canopy across the city. Policy
b) identify policies, actions, incentives, and / or Policy 3.1.2 calls for reducing carbon pollution
4.3.4 calls for protecting soil to protect the
strategies that reduce energy consumption and through implementing the City’s Climate
urban forest and hydrological cycle.
greenhouse gas emissions, create carbon Emergency Action Plan, including advancing
storage opportunities, and improve air quality complete, walkable neighbourhoods; active
iii) reduce the spread of invasive species by Policy 4.3.1 calls for strengthened guidelines
from land use, infrastructure, and settlement transportation and transit; zero emission
employing best practices, such as the and processes for Environmentally Sensitive
patterns, such as: vehicles; zero emission space and water heating
implementation of soil removal and deposit Areas. Policy 4.2.5 calls for strengthened policies
in new and existing buildings; low-carbon
bylaws, development permit requirements, and and regulations to create and restore naturally
construction practices and materials; and
invasive species management plans managed areas on private properties to
renewable energy.
increase biodiversity. Policy 4.3.4 specifically
notes the need to protect urban soil to support Policy 3.2.2 calls for natural climate solutions
canopy cover. The City also has an Integrated that buffer impacts of climate change, sequester
Pest Management policy. carbon, and improve biodiversity.
iv) increase green infrastructure along the Regional Map 9: Long-Term Greenway Network provides
Greenway Network, the Major Transit Network, a vision for active transportation corridors,
i) existing building retrofits and construction of In addition to the above, the Urban Structure
community greenways, and other locations, including the Regional Greenway Network. The
new buildings to meet energy and greenhouse Strategy in Part 4, Future Growth, includes a
where appropriate, and in collaboration with Ecological Network Vision is aligned with
gas performance guidelines or standards (e.g., suite of policies aimed at creating complete
Metro Vancouver, TransLink, and other partners regional and city greenway networks and policy
BC Energy Step Code, passive design), the neighbourhoods and focusing growth near
5.2.4 calls for greenways to include ecological
electrification of building heating systems, transit, such that emissions from buildings and
and green infrastructure functions.
green demolition requirements, embodied transportation are reduced.
emissions policies, zero-carbon district energy
v) support watershed and ecosystem planning, the Part 5 4. Ecology, advances ecological planning.
systems, and energy recovery and renewable
development and implementation of Integrated Part 5 10. Utilities, includes a focus on
energy generation technologies, such as solar
Stormwater Management Plans, and water watershed-based approaches to water and
panels and geoexchange systems, and zero
conservation objectives. rainwater management. The City has an
emission vehicle charging infrastructure; and
Integrated Rainwater Management Plan as well
as a Rain City Strategy that includes targets for
ii) community design, infrastructure, and In addition to the above, all policies in Part 5 5.
capturing and cleaning rainwater. The Ecological
programs that encourage transit, cycling, Transportation seek to reduce emissions from
Network Vision is aligned with blue green
rolling, and walking transportation, for example by enhancing the
systems, which are planned along surface water
transit and greenway networks, and shifting to
flow paths to create larger green rainwater
streets for people.
infrastructure facilities. Policy 4.2.2 recognizes
the inter-relationship between natural areas and
c) focus infrastructure and amenity investments in The Urban Structure Strategy in Part 4, Future
the health of Vancouver’s water systems.
Urban Centres and Frequent Transit Growth, includes policies on locating amenities
Development Areas, and at appropriate in the Metro Core/Broadway Urban Centre
locations along Major Transit Growth Corridors (policy FG1.4.5, FG1.4.8), the Municipal Town
Centre (FG1.5.6), and Rapid Transit Areas
(FG1.6.10).
218 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 219
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statement7.4.3
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Integrate emergency management, utility Vancouver’s ODP establishes resilience as a
planning, and climate change adaptation foundational principle, which is then integrated
principles when preparing land use plans, into policies on climate change mitigation and
transportation plans, and growth management adaptation, hazardous lands, ecology,
policies. community infrastructure, and more. Policies
12.2.1 and 12.2.3 squarely integrate proactive
risk mitigation into land use planning.
8.4.3
yciloP
Strategy 3.4 Advance land use, infrastructure, and human settlement patterns that
improve resilience to climate change impacts and natural hazards
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt appropriate planning standards, The City continues to advance policy on climate
guidelines, and best practices related to climate change and natural hazards, building on
change and natural hazards, such as flood research, standards, and guidelines as well as
hazard management guidelines and wildland context-specific data and community and First
urban interface fire risk reduction principles. Nations input. Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and
Risk Reduction, calls for that work to continue.
5.4.3
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) include policies that minimize risks associated Part 5 3. Climate, includes policies on building
with climate change and natural hazards in resilience to climate change (3.2.1 - 3.2.5). Part 5
existing communities through tools such as 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction, also
heat and air quality response plans, seismic includes policies on mitigating risks from
retrofit policies, and flood-proofing policies hazards, many of which are amplified by climate
change. The City also has additional programs,
policies and regulations aimed at increasing
resilience to climate change (e.g., floodplain and
building cooling requirements in the Vancouver
Building By-law).
b) include policies that discourage new Part 5 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk Reduction
development in current and future hazardous maps known hazardous areas. Policy 12.2.2 calls
areas to the extent possible through tools such for continuing to require additional studies or
as land use plans, hazard-specific Development information to determine suitability for
Permit Areas, and managed retreat policies, and development (e.g., geotechnical and
where development in hazardous areas is hydrogeological studies) and to identify
unavoidable, mitigate risks potential risk mitigation measures for
development within hazardous areas (e.g.,
building to the minimum flood construction
level); and improving regulations over time.
Policy 12.2.3 calls for hazardous lands to be
considered in area plans, including considering
limiting development on lands subject to
hazardous conditions, or strategically allowing
for redevelopment or changes in use where
existing infrastructure or development is
particularly vulnerable to risk.
See also Vancouver Building By-law.
6.4.3
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Incorporate climate change and natural Policy 12.2.1 calls for the City to coordinate
hazard risk assessments into planning and efforts, internally and with partners, to manage
location decisions for new municipal utilities, hazards and embed resilience in land use
assets, operations, and community services. planning as well as planning and location
decisions for new municipal utilities, assets,
operations, and community services.
220 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 221
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementFG1.7.1, FG1.7.2, FG1.8.1, FG1.8.2, FG1.9.1,
Metro 2050 Goal 4: Provide Diverse and Affordable Housing Choices
FG1.10.1, FG1.3.3).
Part 5 1. Housing, includes a range of policies on
The Vancouver ODP includes a key focus on advancing equitable housing, including by ensuring more affordable
increasing the supply of affordable housing to
housing choices are available to ease the housing affordability crisis. The ODP commits to adding housing near
meet diverse needs (1.1.2, 1.2.1, 1.2.2, 1.2.3,
transit as well as transforming low-density neighbourhoods to include housing choice for all income groups and
1.2.4, 1.3.1, 1.3.2, 1.3.4, 1.4.1, 1.5.1, 1.5.2, 1.6.1).
family types. Housing policies address the full range of housing needs and classes, include strong protection for
renters and a focus on advancing housing across the continuum.
ii) increased supply of family-friendly, age-friendly, Part 5 1. Housing, contains a range of policies
and accessible housing related to increasing supply of diverse housing
Goal 4 Targets
types and tenure (Directions 1.2 to 1.6). Policy
1.2.4 calls specifically for improved multi-family
Policy with Target Applicable OCP Policies Supplementary Information
housing options to better meet the diverse
4.2.7 a) indicate how you will, within the local context, See Targets section above See Targets section above needs of households, including for families with
contribute toward the regional target of having at children, intergenerational households, persons
least 15% of newly completed housing units built with disabilities, and seniors, through improved
within all Urban Centres and Frequent Transit building design and forms.
Development Areas combined, to the year 2050, be
affordable rental housing units (recognizing that iii) increased diversity of housing tenure options, Part 5 1. Housing, contains a range of policies
developing affordable rental housing units in transit- such as attainable homeownership, rental, co- related to increasing supply of diverse housing
oriented locations throughout the urban area is op housing, rent-to-own models, and cohousing types and tenure (Directions 1.2 to 1.6). Policies
supported) 1.4.1 and 1.6.1 call specifically for increasing the
supply of new purpose-built market, below
Strategy 4.1 Expand the supply and diversity of housing to meet a variety of needs market rental housing, and social and
supportive housing.
iv) increased density and supply of diverse In Part 4, Future Growth, the Urban Structure
ground-oriented and infill housing forms in Strategy identifies Multiplex areas, as well as
low-density neighbourhoods, such as duplex, Villages, where Missing Middle housing could be
four-plex, townhouse, laneway/coach houses, added. The Residential Multiplex land use
and apartments, particularly in proximity to designation supports a range of infill housing
transit forms in low-density neighbourhoods. The
Residential Low-Rise designation supports 6
storey forms, or up to 8 storeys within Transit-
Oriented Areas.
Policy direction 1.2 Geographic Equity in Part 5
1. Housing calls for increasing Missing Middle
options, low and high-rise apartments
throughout the city.
v) integration of land use and transportation The Urban Structure Strategy integrates land
planning such that households can reduce their use and transportation planning, focusing
combined housing and transportation costs growth near rapid transit and advancing more
complete neighbourhoods.
In Part 5 5. Transportation, policy 5.1.1 also calls
for locating shops, services, businesses, and
diverse housing types in areas that can be well-
served by walking, rolling, biking, and transit.
vi) increased social connectedness in multi-unit In Part 5 1. Housing, Policy 1.2.4 calls for
housing improving multi-family options to better meet
8.1.4
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) indicate how you will work towards meeting Part 5 1. Housing, references the City’s Housing
estimated future housing needs and demand, as Needs Report and contains a suite of policies on
determined in their housing needs report or meeting the various housing needs identified
assessment therein.
b) articulate how local plans and policies will meet Policies in the Urban Structure Strategy in Part
the need for diverse (in tenure, size, and type) 4, Future Growth, call for a diverse range of
and affordable housing options housing types in different neighbourhood types
(policies FG1.4.1, FG1.5.1, FG1.6.1, FG1.6.2,
FG1.7.1, FG1.7.2, FG1.8.1, FG1.8.2, FG1.9.1,
FG1.10.1, FG1.3.3).
Part 5 1. Housing, contains a range of policies
related to increasing supply of diverse housing
types and tenure across all residential areas,
including Missing Middle housing types, family-
sized homes and affordable rental (Directions
1.2 to 1.6).
c) identify policies and actions that contribute to See below
the following outcomes
i) increased supply of adequate, suitable, and The Urban Structure Strategy in Part 4, Future
affordable housing to meet a variety of needs Growth, calls for protecting and creating new
along the housing continuum affordable housing in different neighbourhood
types (policies FG1.4.1, FG1.5.1, FG1.6.1, FG1.6.2,
222 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 223
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statementstatements about special needs housing and the
housing needs of equity-seeking groups
d) identify implementation measures within their See response to Policy 4.1.9(a)
jurisdiction and financial capabilities, including
actions set out in Action 4.1.8
Strategy 4.2 Protect tenants and expand, retain, and renew rental housing supply
7.2.4
yciloP
the diverse needs of households through
improved building design and forms.
Separate design guidelines also support social
connectedness.
vii) integrated housing within neighbourhood The Urban Structure Strategy supports diverse
contexts and high quality urban design housing types and high quality public realm
across neighbourhood types (e.g., policies
FG1.4.1, FG1.5.1, FG1.6.1, FG1.6.2, FG1.7.1,
FG1.7.2, FG1.8.1, FG1.8.2, FG1.9.1, FG1.10.1,
FG1.3.3). Separate design guidelines also
support high quality urban design.
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
viii) existing and future housing stock that is low In Part 5 3. Climate, policy 3.1.2 supports low
carbon and resilient to climate change impacts carbon buildings, and policy 3.2.1 calls for a) indicate how they will, within their local context,
and natural hazards reducing the impacts of climate hazards. Policy contribute toward the regional target of having
12.2.2 in 12. Hazardous Lands and Risk at least 15% of newly completed housing units
Reduction calls for continued risk mitigation for
built within all Urban Centres and Frequent
development in hazardous areas (e.g.,
Transit Development Areas combined, to the See Targets section above
construction to the minimum flood construction
year 2050, be affordable rental housing units
level in the floodplain). Policy 12.2.4 calls for (recognizing that developing affordable rental
retrofits to reduce risks and adapt existing housing units in transit-oriented locations
buildings. throughout the urban area is supported)
b) articulate how local plans and policies will Policy 1.6.2 seeks to minimize displacement of
mitigate impacts on renter households, renters and ensure residents are able to remain
particularly during redevelopment or in their neighbourhoods when planning for
densification of Urban Centres and Frequent growth. Policy 1.6.3 promotes replacement and
Transit Development Areas renewal of existing rental housing stock without
displacement through City policies and
partnerships with Provincial and Federal
governments.
See also Rental Housing Stock ODP, Tenant
Relocation and Protection Policy and Single-
Room Accommodation By-law.
c) identify the use of regulatory tools that protect See Rental Housing Stock ODP, Tenant
and preserve rental housing Relocation and Protection Policy and Single-
Room Accommodation By-law.
d) identify policies and actions that contribute to See below
the following outcomes:
i) increased supply of affordable rental housing in Policies in Part 4, Future Growth direct highest
proximity to transit and on publicly-owned land density growth to neighbourhoods with the
most transit investment, and call for affordable
rental housing in these areas (e.g., policies
FG1.4.1, FG1.5.1, FG1.6.1, FG1.7.1, FG1.8.1).
Policies 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 in Part 5 1. Housing also
support rental and affordable housing near
transit and across neighbourhoods.
9.1.4
yciloP
Section Policy Supplementary Information
Prepare and implement housing strategies or action plans that:
a) are aligned with housing needs reports or The Housing Vancouver Strategy, Housing
assessments, and reviewed or updated every 5- Vancouver 10 Year Targets, and Housing
10 years to ensure that housing strategies or Vancouver 3 Year Action Plan were developed
action plans are based on recent evidence and based on housing needs across a continuum of
responsive to current and future housing needs housing types and tenures. The Housing Needs
Report will be updated every 5 years as per
Provincial legislation to inform ODP updates,
area planning and any housing policy and plan.
Housing strategies, targets and action plans will
be updated periodically depending on latest
housing needs assessment overall and for
specific population groups, economic and
political context, market dynamics,
demographic trends, etc.
b) are based on an assessment of local housing See response to Policy 4.1.9(a)
market conditions, by tenure, including
assessing housing supply, demand, and
affordability
c) identify housing priorities, based on the See response to Policy 4.1.9(a)
assessment of local housing market conditions,
household incomes, changing population and
household demographics, climate change and
natural hazards resilience, and key categories of
local housing need, including specific
224 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 225
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementStrategy 4.3 Meet the housing needs of lower income households and populations
experiencing or at risk of homelessness
7.3.4
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) indicate how they will collaborate with the Part 5 1. Housing, Direction 1.3 focuses on
Federal Government, the Province, and other homelessness. Policy 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 commits
partners, to assist in increasing the supply of the City to working with non-profit providers,
permanent, affordable, and supportive housing Indigenous organizations, Provincial and
units Federal governments to provide a diverse range
of housing options, emergency services, and
b) identify policies and actions to partner with supports to people experiencing and at risk of
other levels of government and non-profit homelessness. Policy 1.3.3 calls for working with
organizations in order to create pathways out of Metro Vancouver municipalities and the
homelessness and contribute to meeting the Provincial government to develop and
housing and support needs of populations implement a regional approach to addressing
experiencing or at risk of homelessness homelessness. 1.3.4 calls for the adoption of
supportive land use policies and zoning to
ensure residents can access shelters, social and
supportive housing in neighbourhoods across
Vancouver.
8.3.4
yciloP
ii) increased supply of market and below-market Part 5 1. Housing, supports renewal and
rental housing through the renewal of aging expansion of market and below-market rental
purpose-built rental housing and prevention of housing, as well as the protection of renters
net rental unit loss (1.2.1, 1.2.2, 1.4.1, 1.4.4, 1.6.1, 1.6.2, 1.6.3).
See also Rental Housing Stock ODP, Tenant
iii) protection and renewal of existing non-market
Relocation and Protection Policy and Single-
rental housing
Room Accommodation By-law.
iv) mitigated impacts on renter households due to
renovation or redevelopment, and strengthened
protections for tenants
v) reduced energy use and greenhouse gas Policies 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 support reduced
emissions from existing and future rental emissions from existing and future housing.
housing stock, while considering impacts on Policy 12.2.4 encourages partnerships to reduce
tenants and affordability risks and adapt buildings and infrastructure to
hazards like extreme heat.
Section Policy Supplementary Information
Prepare and implement housing strategies or action plans that
a) identify opportunities to participate in programs Direction 1.3 in Part 5 1. Housing calls for
with other levels of government to secure addressing homelessness and ensuring every
additional housing units to meet the housing person has access to permanent secure housing
needs of lower income households with a range of diverse supports.
The Housing Vancouver Strategy, Housing
Vancouver 10 Year Targets, and Housing
Vancouver 3 Year Action Plan were developed
based on housing needs across a continuum of
housing types and tenures.
The City collaborates with senior levels of
governments through joint strategies (e.g., SRO
Investment Strategy), funding agreements (e.g.,
Housing Accelerator Fund), development
partnerships (e.g., Permanent Modular
Supportive Housing Initiative with BC Housing),
supportive planning and servicing agreement
with First Nations,and advocacy to deepen
funding for sustained affordable housing.
b) identify strategies to increase community See response to policy 4.3.8(a)
acceptance and communicate the benefits of
affordable and supportive housing development
c) are aligned with or integrate plans to address See response to policy 4.3.8(a)
homelessness, and identify strategies to reduce
the total number of households that are in core
housing need and populations experiencing or
at risk of homelessness
8.2.4
yciloP
Section Policy Supplementary Information
Prepare and implement housing strategies or action plans that:
a) encourage the supply of new rental housing and Part 5 1. Housing, supports renewal and
mitigate or limit the loss of existing rental expansion of market and below-market rental
housing stock housing, as well as the protection of (1.2.1, 1.2.2,
1.4.1, 1.4.4, 1.6.1, 1.6.2, 1.6.3).
b) encourage tenant protections and assistance for
See also response to policy 4.1.9 (a): Housing
renter households impacted by renovation or
Vancouver Strategy, 10-year housing targets, 3-
redevelopment of existing purpose-built rental
year action plan and multiple policies, program
housing
as well existing land uses in Part 4, Future
Growth, Generalized Land Use, support
increasing the rental and affordable rental
housing supply, renewal and protection of
existing affordable housing stock and mitigation
of renter displacement.
See also Rental Housing Stock ODP, Tenant
Relocation and Protection Policy and Single-
Room Accommodation By-law.
c) cooperate with and facilitate the activities of Policy 1.1.2 calls for working with other
Metro Vancouver Housing under Action 4.2.2 municipalities in Metro Vancouver to promote
affordable housing to meet regional needs, and
policies 1.1.3, 1.4.2, 1.4.3 and 1.4.4 call for
partnerships to deliver funding and programs to
meet existing and future housing need.
226 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 227
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
Statementexperience with public spaces, ecological and
green infrastructure functions.
f) support implementation of local active Policy 5.3.5 calls for planning for emerging
transportation and micro-mobility facilities that mobility-related technologies, such as shared
provide direct, comfortable, all ages and abilities mobility, micro-mobility, and self-driving
connections to the Regional Greenway Network, vehicles.
Major Bikeway Network, transit services, and
everyday destinations
Strategy 5.2 Coordinate land use and transportation to support the safe and efficient
movement of vehicles for passengers, goods, and services
6.2.5
yciloP
Metro 2050 Goal 5: Support Sustainable Transportation Choices
The Vancouver ODP focuses growth near transit and advances creating complete neighbourhoods where residents
are enabled to make most trips by walking, rolling, or transit. The Plan ODP outlines a vision for future transit and
greenway network enhancements, consistent with regional plans, and includes a range of policies on creating
streets for people, by transforming road space.
Strategy 5.1 Coordinate land use and transportation to encourage transit, multiple-
occupancy vehicles, cycling and walking
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) identify routes on a map for the safe and Map 6: Employment Area Opportunities
efficient movement of goods and service identifies truck routes and rail corridors.
vehicles to, from, and within Urban Centres;
Frequent Transit Development Areas; Major
Transit Growth Corridors; Industrial,
Employment, and Agricultural lands; ports;
airports; and international border crossings
b) identify land use and related policies and Policies 2.1.5 and 2.2.2 support industrial goods
actions that support the optimization and safety movement. Policies in the Transportation
of goods movement via roads, highways, chapter echo this commitment (5.3.4), and
railways, aviation, short sea shipping, and active support active transportation (5.2.2, 5.2.4, 5.2.5).
transportation Policy 5.2.3 calls for reimagining arterials as safe
and livable while efficiently moving people and
goods, and reducing the impacts of polluting
vehicles and optimizing goods movement.
c) support the development of local and regional Part 5 5. Transportation includes a direction on
transportation system management strategies, Future Planning which speaks to planning for
such as the provision of information to emerging technologies (policy 5.3.5) and
operators of goods and service vehicles for supporting regional transportation planning
efficient travel decisions, management of traffic (policy 5.3.3).
flow using transit priority measures,
coordinated traffic signalization, and lane
management
d) identify policies and actions that support the Policies 2.1.5 and 2.2.2 support industrial goods
protection of rail rights-of-way, truck routes, movement. Policies 5.2.3 and 5.3.4 echo this
and access points to navigable waterways in commitment. Policy 2.1.6 calls for working with
order to reserve the potential for goods partners to realize the potential of the Central
movement Waterfront District as a transportation hub and
employment area.
e) identify policies and actions to mitigate public Policy FG1.2.3 in the Urban Structure Strategy
exposure to unhealthy levels of noise, vibration, calls for allowing more housing and community
and air pollution associated with the Major Road infrastructure off arterial streets to reduce
exposure to harmful noise levels and poor air
41.1.5
yciloP
Section Policy Applicable ODP Policies
Adopt Regional Context Statements that:
a) identify land use and transportation policies and The Urban Structure Strategy directs high
actions to encourage a greater share of trips density development to neighbourhoods in
made by transit, shared mobility options, close proximity to transit, and encourages
cycling, walking, and rolling complete neighbourhoods to enable more trips
by active transportation and transit (FG1.4.2,
FG1.4.4, FG1.5.2, FG1.5.3, FG1.6.4, FG1.6.7,
FG1.7.3, FG1.7.4, FG1.8.3).
Part 5 5. Transportation, encourages using land
use planning and urban design to enable
walking, biking, and transit (5.1.1 to 5.1.5),
creating streets for people (5.2.1 to 5.2.9), and
supporting rapid transit expansion (5.3.3).
b) support the development and implementation Part 5 5. Transportation includes a variety of
of transportation demand management policies related to reducing demand for
strategies, such as: parking pricing and supply personal vehicles, and policy 5.1.5 specifically
measures, transit priority measures, end-of-trip calls for disincentivizing driving, while planning
facilities for active transportation and micro- for those who rely on vehicles to get around
mobility, and shared mobility services (e.g., shared district parking, limiting parking
supply).
Vancouver’s Transportation 2040 plan includes
more specific policy and strategies on
transportation demand management.
c) manage and enhance municipal infrastructure The policies in Part 5 5. Transportation support
in support of transit, multiple-occupancy municipal infrastructure management and
vehicles, cycling, walking, and rolling enhancement to support transit, multiple-
occupancy vehicles, cycling, walking, and rolling,
including by orienting streets for people and
transit (policies 5.2.1-5.2.9).
d) support the transition to zero-emission vehicles Policy 3.1.2 calls for implementing the Climate
Emergency Action Plan, including by supporting
zero-emission vehicles.
e) support implementation of the Regional Map 9: Long-Term Greenway Network includes
Greenway Network and Major Bikeway Network, the Regional Greenway Network. Policy 5.2.4
as identified in Map 10 (Metro 2050) calls for amplifying and intensifying the
greenway network as car-light to car-free
corridors for active transportation and
recreation providing a high-quality, continuous
228 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 229
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppA
Appendix
A
Regional
Context
StatementNetwork, Major Transit Network, railways, truck quality. Policy 5.2.3 calls for reimagining
routes, and Federal / Provincial Highways arterials as safe and livable while efficiently
moving people and goods, and reducing the
impacts of polluting vehicles and optimizing
goods movement. Policy 12.2.5 and 12.2.6 call
for development near rail or in areas exposed to
environmental health hazards to incorporate
risk mitigation measures, enhanced
construction techniques and thoughtful site
design to reduce impacts from these hazards.
f) identify policies and actions that anticipate the Policies 2.1.5, 2.2.2 and 5.3.4 support
land and infrastructure requirements for goods sustainable industrial goods movement. Policies
movement and drayage, such as truck parking, 5.2.2 and 5.2.5 support active transportation
zero-emission vehicle charging infrastructure, improvements that take into consideration the
and e-commerce distribution centres, and local economy and planning for deliveries.
mitigate any negative impacts of these uses on
neighbourhoods
230 | VANCOUVER ODP
tnemetatS
txetnoC
lanoigeR
A
xidneppAMap A1: Regional land use designations and overlays
Regional Designations Urban Containment Boundary Metro Core
General Urban
Municipal Boundary Municipal Town Centre
Industrial
Frequent Transit Development Area
Employment
(FTDA)
Conservation and Recreation
Agricultural
VANCOUVER
ODP
|
231
tnemetatS txetnoC lanoigeR A xidneppAAPPENDIX B:
ADDITIONAL MAPSMap B1: Regional land use designations and overlays
Regional Designations Urban Containment Boundary Metro Core
General Urban
Municipal Boundary Municipal Town Centre
Industrial
Frequent Transit Development Area
Employment
(FTDA)
Conservation and Recreation
Agricultural
VANCOUVER
ODP
|
233
spaM lanoitiddA B xidneppAMap B2: Area-specific policies and regulations (city-wide)
This map is provided for convenience only. A more
complete list of land use regulations and policies can
be found at:
vancouver.ca/home-property-development/zoning-
and-land-use-policies-document-library.aspx
Area Plans Other Area-Specific Policies and Regulations First Nations Reserves
Official Development Plans Greenspace Outside Vancouver
I-2 and M-2 Non-industrial Rezoning Policy City Boundary
Other Rezoning Policies
234
|
VANCOUVER
ODP
Appendix B Additional MapsMap B3: Area-specific policies and regulations (central)
This map is provided for
convenience only. A more complete
list of land use regulations and
policies can be found at:
vancouver.ca/home-property-
development/zoning-and-land-use-
policies-document-library.aspx
Area Plans Other Area-Specific Policies and Regulations First Nations Reserves
Central Area Plan Official Development Plans Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Metropolitan Core Jobs and Economy Land Use Plan I-2 and M-2 Non-industrial Rezoning Policy City Boundary
Other Area Plans Other Rezoning Policies
VANCOUVER
ODP
|
235
spaM lanoitiddA B xidneppAMap B4: Area-specific policies and regulations (policy statements)
This map is provided for convenience only. A more
complete list of land use regulations and policies can
be found at:
vancouver.ca/home-property-development/zoning-
and-land-use-policies-document-library.aspx
Policy Statement
236
|
VANCOUVER
ODP
Appendix B Additional MapsMap B5: In-progress major project sites
In-Progress Major Project Site
VANCOUVER
ODP
|
237
spaM lanoitiddA B xidneppAMap B6: Sites where residential may be considered within 200m of a rapid transit station in employment areas
Applicable Rapid Transit Station
Rapid Transit Line
200m Radius Around Rapid Transit Station
Site Where Residential May be Considered
238
|
VANCOUVER
ODP
Appendix B Additional MapsMap B7: Environmentally sensitive areas
Environmentally Sensitive Areas First Nations Reserves
Aquatic Park or Open Space
Foreshore Greenspace Outside Vancouver
Terrestrial City Boundary
Existing Ecological Corridor
Watercourse
VANCOUVER
ODP
|
239
spaM lanoitiddA B xidneppAGLOSSARY
2SLGBTQIA+ Two Spirit, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, and Asexual Plus.
Accessible transportation A transportation system that can be easily used by people with disabilities or people
system facing other barriers.
Active cooling The use of mechanical equipment using electricity as a power source, mainly. The
most used in the residential sector are three: fans, evaporative coolers, and heat
pumps.
Active travel Any mode of travel where people are moving themselves, sometimes with the help of
a small mobility device, such as walking, rolling, or biking to get around.
Affordable housing Affordability is a measure of a household’s ability to pay for housing – it relates the
cost of housing to household income. Housing is considered to be affordable when it
comprises 30 per cent or less of a household’s total income before taxes.
Amenities A range of places and facilities such as libraries, recreation centres, parks, plazas,
public and non-profit childcare facilities, social and cultural facilities, public art, corner
GLOSSARY stores, public wifi, and bike share facilities. Amenities make living in the city easier and
more enjoyable.
Aquifer A layer of permeable material below ground where groundwater can be transmitted
and stored.
Arts A wide range of creative endeavors and disciplines, such as visual, literary, or
performing arts that express culture and heritage. In Indigenous worldviews, art
is not separate from everyday life and work. Stories, agreements, and laws can be
carried through songs, dances, carvings, regalia, and weavings.
Assets A thing or quality that is highly valued or useful. Includes natural assets,
neighbourhood assets, cultural assets, heritage assets, etc.
Below-market rental Rental housing that is more affordable than market rental housing and is delivered
by the private market through incentives or inclusionary requirements, such as an
increase in density. Below-market rental dwelling units are subject to the affordability,
form of tenure, duration, and other enumerated requirements in the Zoning and
Development By-law.
Biodiversity The richness of plant and animal species, including their genetic diversity, the
ecosystems they inhabit, and the ecological processes that sustain them.
Blue green network Park-like streets that manage water and provide ecosystem services.
Business Improvement Specially funded business districts, managed by non-profit groups of property
Area (BIA) owners and business tenants whose goal is to promote and improve their business
district.
Carbon footprint A measure of the exclusive total amount of carbon dioxide emissions that is directly
and indirectly caused by an activity or is accumulated over the life stages of a product
or person.
Carbon Pollution/ The release of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases into the
Emissions atmosphere, primarily from burning fossil fuels, which traps heat and contributes to
global warming and climate change.
Car-light or car-free Spaces, such as plazas or streets, where vehicles are not permitted or are only
allowed for a limited time, or where only certain vehicles are allowed (e.g., delivery
trucks or local residents).
240 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 241Circular economy An economic model that extends the life cycle of products. Throughout this process, Drainage system A system of gutters, pipes, drains, catch basins, and green rainwater infrastructure
waste is eliminated through the reduction, reuse, repair, and recycling of materials to that together manage urban rainwater runoff.
limit inefficiencies and close gaps within the system. It aims to effectively design out
Ecological corridor Ecological corridors provide landscaped connectivity across natural areas and
waste.
ecological attributes. These corridors are envisioned to support the flow of water,
City-facilitated childcare Any childcare that the City has an ownership stake in, required as a condition of continuous growing space for plants, movement and refuge for a diversity of species,
development, or contributed capital funds towards. access to nature and the provision of ecosystem services, such as urban cooling and
flood control. They follow natural drainage patterns through the blue green network,
Climate change adaptation The process of adjusting to current or expected climate change and its effects.
quieter routes along greenways, along shoreline and riparian areas, and through
Climate change mitigation Responding to climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. ESAs.
Colonization A process by which settlers from Western Europe sought to replace Indigenous laws Ecological network The interconnected system of natural spaces across the city, composed of both
and take Indigenous land for the purpose of building wealth. This process used force terrestrial and marine areas. The envisioned ecological network is composed of
to intimidate, manipulate, and physically remove Indigenous peoples from their land significant ecological attributes within environmentally sensitive areas, and ecological
and extinguish their cultures. corridors to connect them.
Combined sewer/ A system in which rainwater and sanitary sewage water is collected in the same Ecosystem services The benefits living things obtain from ecosystems. These include food and water,
Combined sewer overflow sewer. Combined sewer overflow describes an event when the sewer is over capacity flood and disease control, spiritual and recreational benefits, and supporting services
and releases a mixture of rainwater and sewage into receiving waters. that maintain the conditions for life on Earth.
Commercial tenant Person or organization who leases non-residential space and does not live in that Empty Homes Tax An annual tax on the assessed property value of empty or under-utilized properties in
space. The term commercial refers to the space and not the activities of the tenant. the city of Vancouver. The goal of the Empty Homes Tax is to incentivize the rental of
The commercial tenant can be a business, a not-for-profit, a social enterprise, a residential properties in order to increase the city’s housing supply.
community organization, or a government organization, etc. A residential tenant is
Environmentally Sensitive Lands that have ecological attributes worthy of special care to preserve their
someone renting a space to live in it.
Areas natural state and function, and include terrestrial, aquatic, and foreshore areas and
Community Centre Community-based society incorporated under the Societies Act. Plays an important watercourses.
Association (CCA) role in contributing to the success of the community centre network, including by
Equity-denied groups Groups who have been excluded from the design of current societal, governmental
delivering programming and services.
and legal systems, and who face marginalization and discrimination as a result of
Community-serving spaces Facilities, space, or land that support the delivery of no- or low-cost community that exclusion. These groups are some of the most underserved in our community
programs that foster well-being and resilience, and promote a sense of belonging, because of these systemic barriers and include: people who identify as Indigenous,
including but not limited to social service programs, public and non-profit childcare, Black people and people of African descent; people of colour and racialized people;
food programs, non-profit administration, arts, cultural, and recreational uses. These people with disabilities and chronic illnesses; people who live with mental health
spaces are owned and/or operated by public, private, non-profit, or community challenges; deaf and hard of hearing people; 2S/LGBTQQIA+ and gender diverse
operators in a variety of program models. people; people with low incomes; refugees, newcomers, and undocumented people;
minority language communities; women and girls; or youth and seniors. Also referred
Complete neighbourhoods Neighbourhoods that include all of the resources to meet most residents’ daily needs
to in the Plan as equity-denied communities.
– shops, restaurants, flexible work spaces, internet, community services, housing,
transit, schools, parks, and other features. These highly walkable neighbourhoods Ethno-cultural Community Areas where there is a concentration of cultural heritage assets, services, and/or
support better livability – they have less reliance on cars, support better physical Areas businesses for or from specific racialized ethnic communities (e.g., Black and African
health, and provide a range of housing options for a diverse mix of people. These descent communities, Punjabi, Chinese, or Vietnamese) or white ethnic communities
neighbourhoods also provide more opportunities for social interaction as people (e.g., Greek, Italian, or Ukrainian).
meet and connect on the street, at their favourite coffee shop, local playground, and
Fossil Fuels These include coal, oil, and methane or natural gas, which were formed over millions
during everyday activities like walking to get groceries.
of years from decomposing plants and animals. When burned as fuels, they emit
Cultural Redress Areas Ethno-cultural Community Areas where the City has issued recognition or formal carbon dioxide. Burning fossil fuels is the main cause of the global warming and
apology with strategic, financial, and/or policy commitments to recognize and climate change happening now.
address historic and contemporary forms of legislative and municipal discrimination,
Green Rainwater Rainwater infrastructure that uses soils, plants, trees, and built structures such
erasure, and displacement. As of 2022, these areas include Chinatown, Hogan’s Alley,
Infrastructure (GRI) as blue green roofs, swales, rainwater tree trenches, and rain gardens to capture,
Punjabi Market, and Paueru-gai.
store, and clean rainwater before being absorbed in the ground or returning it to our
Culture A set of shared attitudes, values, and practices that define people and places, waterways and atmosphere. GRI can also include the harvest and reuse of rainwater.
reflecting the lands, waters, heritages, and histories of the place. Culture includes
Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases such as carbon dioxide and methane that trap heat in the Earth’s atmosphere.
artistic and creative activity, and the goods and services produced by it.
Greenway High-quality active transportation, recreation, and public space corridors that
Daily needs Resources that people typically need access to more than once a week. Examples
support walking, biking, and rolling for people of all ages, abilities, and identities.
include shops, restaurants, work spaces, internet, community services, housing,
Greenways form a city-wide network across neighbourhoods and provide access to
transit, schools, and parks.
key destinations such as parks, schools, and community spaces.
Decolonization The process of surfacing the colonial assumptions, narratives, and beliefs that
Groundwater Water occurring below the surface of the ground within voids in a rock or soil matrix.
individuals hold and that are embedded in the City’s ways of operating, and
beginning to dismantle and reshape these structures.
242 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 243Habitat The area or type of environment in which a species of plant or animal lives such as a Livelihoods spectrum/ The diverse range of income-generating and employment opportunities residents
woodpecker in a forested habitat or tidepool fish in an intertidal marine habitat. continuum engage in to create their livelihoods, rather than taking a view of the economy that
focuses only on 'traditional' forms of employment and entrepreneurship.
Heritage/Cultural heritage Tangible heritage (physical artifacts like buildings, monuments, and collections
of objects; or preserving and restoring buildings and monuments) and intangible Living wage Hourly rate required for two working adults to meet the basic needs of a family of
or living heritage (such as oral traditions, performing arts, rituals, celebrations, four based on the regional cost of living (calculated annually by the Living Wage for
and practices that express culture inherited from ancestors and passed on to Families Campaign). Includes direct wages and the value of non-mandatory benefits,
descendants). such as paid sick leave and extended health benefits.
Heritage District A place comprising a group of buildings, structures, landscapes, and/or archeological Major office Employment use which typically occurs in large free-standing office buildings of
sites and their spatial relationships where built forms are often the major defining 20,000 sq. ft. or greater. Businesses in this category often seek a central location
features and where the collective identity has heritage value for a community. with access to transit infrastructure and various other amenities, and are typically
distributed amongst a few major concentrations in the region (e.g., the Central
Housing co-op An organization incorporated under the Cooperatives Association Act that provides
Business District).
housing to its members. Most housing co-ops in Vancouver are non-profit co-ops.
These non-profit co-ops are included under the definition of social housing. Minor office Minor office is anything smaller than major office (i.e., office space less than 20,000
sq. ft.). See definition for major office for comparison.
IBPOC IBPOC is a contemporary term that refers to Indigenous, Black and People of Colour.
Market rental Purpose-built rental housing or secondary rental housing (such as a basement suite
Indigenous Rightsholders Aboriginal rights are rights held by Indigenous peoples, not by virtue of Crown
or rented condo), rented in the private market at market rents.
grant, legislation, or treaty, but as inherent rights by reason of the fact of Indigenous
Peoples’ pre-existing occupation, stewardship, and self-government over lands Micromobility Small, light devices that typically move a single person (or an adult and 1-2 children).
now making up Canada. These rights are recognized in Section 35 of the Canadian They include bikes, e-bikes, trikes, skateboards, cargo bikes, e-scooters, hoverboards,
Constitution. In Vancouver we acknowledge Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil- electric skateboards, and many other devices. Devices like wheelchairs, mobility
Waututh as the local Nations in these territories and follow a distinctions-based scooters, or walkers may be included, but these are often considered mobility aids as
approach to engagement. As such we respect and engage with Indigenous Peoples they are usually required by their users.
according to their unique rights, governance systems, and self-determined priorities.
Missing Middle housing Housing forms such as townhouses, multiplexes, and low-rise apartments up to
Infiltration The ground’s ability to allow water movement into and through the soil. For example, 6-storeys. This form of housing increases housing choice, including ownership and
by absorbing and holding water to support plant life. rental options.
Inter-jurisdictional Areas overseen by two or more governmental bodies. For example, Still Creek in an Mixed-use Two or more types of activities in one place, such as housing, shops, offices, childcare,
inter-jurisdictional watershed system as it spreads between the city of Vancouver and or cultural venues. The term mixed-use can be applied to a single building (for
the city of Burnaby. example an apartment building with a shop on the ground floor) or to larger areas
(such as a mixed-use block with different activities located next to each other).
Intersectionality A framework that explores how different forms of systemic oppression like racism,
classism, and sexism intersect and create compounding, negative effects. Multi-family housing A residential building containing three or more dwelling units.
Land-based cultural An Indigenous worldview that recognizes the deep physical, mental, emotional, Multiplex A small scale townhouse project on a single lot. Multiplexes allow more people to live
practices and spiritual connection that people, knowledge, and values have to the land and on a single lot. Because the cost of the land is shared over more homes and the units
the environment. It recognizes that every place has its own unique environmental are smaller, they cost less and are a more sustainable alternative to single-detached
conditions that need to be respected and considered holistically in every land homes or duplexes.
management decision.
Natural area Large and small patches of the urban landscape which support nature such as
Last mile delivery/logistics Last leg of a journey comprising the movement of goods to a final destination (e.g., forests, wetlands, and shorelines, but also including green roofs, constructed
delivering packages to residential homes or businesses). wetlands, and rain gardens.
Livability How well a place is able to meet the needs of those living there and support quality of Naturally Managed Areas Areas within Vancouver’s parks and other city-owned lands that support biodiversity
life, both in the short and long term. and ecological connectivity with minimal maintenance. These spaces contain a high
proportion of native plants, provide wildlife habitat, and may be in various stages of
natural recovery. While less intensively managed than landscaped areas, they require
active stewardship, including invasive species removal and habitat restoration to
enhance ecological function in an urban setting.
Nature-based solutions Design solutions that are inspired and supported by nature, which are cost-effective
and simultaneously provide environmental, social, and economic benefits, and help
build resilience.
Non-profit organization The term ‘non-profit organization’ (NPO) is used to distinguish this business sector
(NPO) from the ‘for-profit’ business sector. NPOs may have paid staff and engage in
activities that result in income or profit, but by definition, they cannot pass those
profits on to directors or members of the organization.
Sunset Park bike path (Source: Shannon Mendes) Restored Vancouver Salt Company building in Southeast False Creek
(Source: City of Vancouver)
244 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 245One Water A planning approach adopted by the City, which values all forms of water, considers Rainwater runoff Water in the form of rain or melted snow that flows across the ground surface, often
the entire urban water cycle, and integrates all aspects of water management and collecting pollutants as it moves.
infrastructure with nature.
Rapid transit High capacity, fast, and frequent transit that takes priority over general traffic.
Parks In Vancouver, this includes all areas that are designated as permanent, temporary or Existing and proposed rapid transit routes include the Expo, Canada, and Millennium
care, custody and management parks that are under the jurisdiction of the Vancouver lines; Hastings, Broadway, 41st Avenue, and 49th Avenue.
Board of Parks and Recreation. In the future they may also include park lands within
Receiving waters Larger bodies of water at the bottom of a watershed into which smaller waterbodies
the city that are operated by or co-managed with the Musqueam, Squamish, and
flow. Local receiving waters include Burrard Inlet, the Fraser River, False Creek,
Tsleil-Waututh Nations.
English Bay, and the Salish Sea.
Passive cooling Any technologies or design features adopted to reduce the temperature of buildings
Reconciliation Building respectful relationships between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people.
without the need for power consumption.
This includes recognition of Indigenous rights and titles, as well as restitution and
Pollinators Species such as bees and butterflies, which pollinate our plants, crops, fruit trees, and redress for colonial harms.
more.
Redress To repair the harms of systemic exclusion and discrimination or historic wrong.
Public realm Public realm has a broader meaning than “public space”, as it also includes privately
Resilience The ability of individuals, communities, organizations, businesses, and systems
owned public spaces, and the building façades, storefronts, displays, and patios that
within a city to survive, adapt, and thrive in the face of shocks (acute disruptions like
shape the experience of public spaces. It also incorporates streetscape elements
earthquakes or heat waves) and address stresses (chronic issues like affordability and
such as street furniture, lighting, public art, and distinctive sidewalk treatments -
social isolation).
or anything that can be seen and experienced at a pedestrian eye level. The sum
of these parts contributes to the public realm and the overall experience and Restorative natural area A natural or naturalized area that is, as much as possible, removed from road noise,
attractiveness of a public space. traffic, and other interventions. It is relatively quiet and contains natural elements like
native plants and water features.
Public right-of-way Roads, streets, lanes, boulevards, and sidewalks that are managed and/or owned by a
government. Rolling A mode of transportation other than biking or walking, which includes mobility aids
like wheelchairs, walkers, or strollers, and other types of newer mobility devices such
Public space For the purpose of the Official Development Plan, public spaces are defined
as e-scooters.
separately from parks, which are addressed independently. In this context, public
spaces are all places publicly owned or in public use, accessible and enjoyable by all, Secured rental housing Housing units that can only be used as rental housing. This is guaranteed with a
including plazas, parklets, streets, sidewalks, laneways, pathways, and the seawall. legally binding covenant or housing agreement registered on title, which restricts the
To a limited extent, government buildings which are open to the public, such as public use to rental housing for 60 years or the life of the building (whichever is longer), or
libraries, are public spaces, although they tend to have restricted areas and greater for another term agreed upon by the City and the owner.
limits upon use.
Self-Determination The right and ability for Indigenous communities and Nations to freely pursue their
Public utilities In the context of the Official Development Plan, public utilities refer to essential, political, social, economic, and cultural paths into the future.
fundamental services and infrastructure provided to the community and to support
Sequester Capture and store carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through mechanical,
growth.
chemical, or biological means.
These include:
Shared district parking Parking that is provided in a single location for a block, neighbourhood, or
• Water supply (drinking, washing, fire protection)
commercial area, rather than parking provided specifically to support a particular
• Sewage and drainage, flood protection
building or land use.
• Waste management & resource recovery
• Streets, transportation, and mobility Shared mobility Transportation vehicles and services shared by members, for example bike share
• Energy (electricity, steam, hot water, natural gas) (e.g., Mobi) or car share (e.g., EVO or Modo) services.
• Telecommunications
Single-detached house A free-standing residential building that may or may not contain a suite.
Transportation policies are detailed in Part 5 5. Transportation. Policies concerning
Social housing Rental housing in which: at least 30 percent of the dwelling units are occupied
the remaining utilities are detailed in Part 5 10. Utilities.
by households with incomes below housing income limits, as set out in the
Purpose-built rental Multi-family housing built with the intent to be rented in the private market. Includes “Housing Income Limits” table published by BC Housing; it is owned by a non-profit
rental housing secured by legal agreement. See secured rental housing. corporation, a non-profit co-operative association, or by or on behalf of the City, the
Province of British Columbia, or Canada; and it is secured by a housing agreement or
Rail facility Land and/or infrastructure used for rail operations, limited to heavy rail, including rail
other legal commitment. (As defined in City of Vancouver Zoning and Development
lines, rail sidings, train stations, inter-modal facilities, rail yards, and associated uses,
By-law).
including designated lands for future rail facilities.
Rainwater Rainfall and other natural precipitation. Within this plan, social housing is used as a general term that also includes supportive
housing and non-profit co-op housing; these types of housing also meet the
Rainwater management Focuses on how we manage urban rainwater runoff in the environment through a
definition of social housing as per the Zoning and Development By-law.
combination of land use, surface, and sub-surface green rainwater infrastructure
(GRI) and traditional pipe and other grey infrastructure solutions. Special Market Area Commercial area of particular importance to an ethno-cultural community (e.g.,
Punjabi Market). See also ‘Ethno-cultural Community Areas’.
246 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 247Statement of Cultural A statement that outlines the key aspects of a place and why it is culturally significant,
Significance extending beyond the physical characteristics.
Supportive housing Social housing with supports that help individuals maintain housing stability.
Supports help tenants stabilize their lives, enhance their independent living skills, and
reconnect with their communities. Some services are provided by on-site staff and
some services are delivered through outreach programs.
Sustainable travel Walking, biking, rolling, taking transit, and sometimes, using a low or zero-emission
vehicle.
Systemic barriers Policies, practices, or procedures that result in some people receiving unequal access
or exclusion.
Terra firma Land that is free from physical and legal underground, at-grade, and above-grade
encumbrances.
Transportation hub A location where several modes of transportation are available for users. For
example, a SkyTrain station adjacent to a bus stop and a bike share station.
Unceded The word ‘unceded’ means ‘taken without consent’ and refers to a process (of
colonization) by which settlers from Western Europe sought to replace Indigenous
laws and take Indigenous land.
Urban Heat Island Effect Elevated temperatures in urban areas where the land surface has been altered
through the development of buildings, roads, and other infrastructure. Minimized
airflow, limited greenspace and tree canopy, more impervious surfaces and
structures, and human created heat sources lead to elevated temperatures.
Walkability A measure of how walkable and pedestrian-friendly an area is.
Water cycle The continuous movement of water above and below the earth. 'Urban water cycle'
refers to the way water continuously moves through the stages of the water cycle in
cities.
Water-adaptive spaces Spaces designed to more efficiently manage water. For example, by allowing water to
permeate through the surface and into the soil to support surrounding plant life and
groundwater recharge.
Watershed A distinct hydrologically-defined geographic area where all waterways (such as creeks
and streams) and overland flowing rainwater drain to a common receiving water
body.
Whole systems An approach to understanding how things are related and how they influence and
interact with one another to create a full system.
Art by Indigenous youth, 63rd Avenue at Yukon Street green rainwater
infrastructure plaza (Source: Shannon Mendes)
248 | VANCOUVER ODP VANCOUVER ODP | 249vancouver.ca/odp