1302-1318 East 12th Avenue
BY-LAW NO. 14663
A By-law to amend
Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575
to rezone an area to CD-1
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
Zoning District Plan Amendment
1. This by-law amends the Zoning District Plan attached as Schedule D to By-law No. 3575,
and amends or substitutes the boundaries and districts shown on it, according to the
amendments, substitutions, explanatory legends, notations, and references shown on the plan
attached as Schedule A to this by-law, and incorporates Schedule A into Schedule D of By-law
No. 3575.
Designation of CD-1 District
2. The area shown within the heavy black outline on Schedule A is hereby designated
CD-1 (922).
Uses
3. Subject to Council approval of the form of development, to all conditions, guidelines and
policies adopted by Council, and to the conditions set out in this by-law or in a development permit,
the only uses permitted within this CD-1 and the only uses for which the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board will issue development permits are:
(a) Cultural and Recreational Uses;
(b) Dwelling Uses, limited to Mixed-Use Residential Building, Multiple Conversion
Dwelling, and Multiple Dwelling;
(c) Institutional Uses;
(d) Live-Work Use;
(e) Office Uses;
(f) Retail Uses;
(g) Service Uses;
(h) Utility and Communication Uses; and
(i) Accessory Uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section.Conditions of Use
4.1 The design and layout of at least 35% of the total number of dwelling units must:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
(b) have 2 or more bedrooms.
4.2 No portion of the first storey of a building, to a depth of 10.7 m from the front wall of the
building and extending across its full width, may be used for residential purposes except for
entrances to the residential portion.
4.3 All commercial uses and accessory uses must be carried on wholly within a completely
enclosed building, other than the following:
(a) display of flowers, plants, fruits and vegetables in combination with a permitted
use;
(b) farmers’ market;
(c) neighbourhood public house;
(d) public bike share; and
(e) restaurant,
except that the Director of Planning may vary this regulation to permit the outdoor display
of retail goods, and the Director of Planning may impose any conditions the Director of
Planning considers necessary, having regard to the types of merchandise, the area and
location of the display with respect to adjoining sites, the hours of operation and the intent
of this by-law.
Floor Area and Density
5.1 Computation of floor area must assume that the site area is 1,056 m2, being the site area
at the time of the application for the rezoning evidenced by this by-law, prior to any dedications.
5.2 The maximum floor space ratio for all uses combined is 3.21.
5.3 Computation of floor area must include all floors having a minimum ceiling height of 1.2 m,
both above and below base surface, measured to the extreme outer limits of the building.
5.4 Computation of floor area must exclude:
(a) balconies and decks and any other appurtenances which, in the opinion of the
Director of Planning, are similar to the foregoing, provided that:
(i) the total area of these exclusions must not exceed 12% of the permitted
floor area, and
(ii) the balconies must not be enclosed for the life of the building;(b) patios and roof decks, if the Director of Planning considers the impact on privacy
and outlook;
(c) floors or portions thereof that are used for:
(i) off-street parking and loading located at or below base surface, provided
that the maximum exclusion for a parking space does not exceed 7.3 m in
length,
(ii) bicycle storage, and
(iii) heating and mechanical equipment, or uses that the Director of Planning
considers similar to the foregoing;
(d) entries, porches and verandahs if the Director of Planning first approves the
design;
(e) all residential storage area above or below base surface, except that if residential
storage area above base surface exceeds 3.7 m2 per dwelling unit, there will be no
exclusion for any of the residential storage area above base surface for that unit;
and
(f) all storage area below base surface for non-dwelling uses.
5.5 The Director of Planning or Development Permit Board may exclude common amenity
areas from the computation of floor area, to a maximum of 10% of the total permitted floor area,
if the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board considers the intent of this by-law and all
applicable Council policies and guidelines.
Building Height
6. Building height must not exceed 24.20 m.
Horizontal Angle of Daylight
7.1 Each habitable room must have at least 1 window on an exterior wall of a building.
7.2 For the purposes of section 7.1 above, habitable room means any room except a bathroom
or a kitchen.
7.3 Each exterior window must be located so that a plane or planes extending from the window
and formed by an angle of 50 degrees, or 2 angles with a sum of 70 degrees, to encounter no
obstruction over a distance of 24.0 m.
7.4 The plane or planes referred to in section 7.3 above must be measured horizontally from
the centre of the bottom of each window.
7.5 An obstruction referred to in section 7.3 above means:
(a) any part of the same building excluding permitted projections; or
(b) the largest building permitted on any adjoining site.7.6 The Director of Planning or Development Permit Board may vary the horizontal angle of
daylight requirement if:
(a) the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board considers all applicable
Council policies and guidelines; and
(b) the minimum distance of unobstructed view is at least 3.7 m.
Severability
8. A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
Force and Effect
9. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 14th day of April, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk