BY-LAW NO. 14671
A By-law to amend the Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674
Regarding Extension of Complaint Period
for Supplementary Vacancy Tax Notices and other Miscellaneous Amendments
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
1. This by-law amends the indicated provisions of the Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674.
2. In section 1.2, Council adds the following new definition in the correct alphabetical order:
““medical practitioner” means a person registered by the College of Physicians and Surgeons
of British Columbia and entitled under the Health Professions Act to practice medicine and
use the title “medical practitioner”, or a person with similar qualifications in another
jurisdiction;”.
3. In section 3.2(a)(i), Council strikes out “for which permits have been issued by the City” and
substitutes “for which a building permit or, if a building permit is not required for the work being
carried out, another type of permit that, in the opinion of the Chief Building Official or the Chief
Building Official’s delegates, authorizes the work, has been issued by the City”.
4. In section 3.2(a)(ii), Council strikes out “Chief Building Officer’s delegates” and substitutes
“Chief Building Official’s delegates”.
5. In section 6.3(b), Council adds “unless the registered owner was unable to provide
information or evidence in response to a request made by the Collector of Taxes under section 4.7
or 4.8 and the penalty in section 6.4 is paid” after “no such extension will be granted beyond one
year from the date of issue noted on the supplementary vacancy tax notice”.
6. In section 6.4, Council adds “under section 6.3(a), or after one year from the date of issue
noted on a supplementary vacancy tax notice under section 6.3(b)” after “in which the tax is due and
payable”.
7. A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs that
part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
8. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 22nd day of April, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk