2110 West 5th Avenue
BY-LAW NO. 14673
A By-law to amend
Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575
to rezone an area to CD-1
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
Zoning District Plan Amendment
1. This by-law amends the Zoning District Plan attached as Schedule D to By-law
No. 3575, and amends or substitutes the boundaries and districts shown on it, according to the
amendments, substitutions, explanatory legends, notations, and references shown on the plan
attached as Schedule A to this by-law, and incorporates Schedule A into Schedule D of By-law
No. 3575.
Designation of CD-1 District
2. The area shown within the heavy black outline on Schedule A is hereby designated
CD-1 (925).
Definitions
3. Words in this by-law have the meaning given to them in the Zoning and Development
By-law, except that:
(a) for the purposes of calculating the total dwelling unit area for section 5.1 of this
by-law, “Dwelling Unit Area” is the floor area of each dwelling unit, measured to the
inside of all perimeter walls, excluding any floor area as required by
section 6.5 of this by-law; and
(b) “Below-Market Rental Units” means dwelling units that meet the requirements of
approved Council policies and guidelines for below-market rental housing, as
secured by a housing agreement and registered on title to the property.
Uses
4. Subject to approval of the form of development, to all conditions, guidelines and policies
adopted by Council, and to the conditions set out in this by-law or in a development permit, the
only uses permitted within this CD-1 and the only uses for which the Director of Planning or
Development Permit Board will issue development permits are:
(a) Cultural and Recreational Uses;
(b) Dwelling Uses, limited to Mixed-Use Residential Building;
(c) Institutional Uses;(d) Retail Uses;
(e) Service Uses;
(f) Utility and Communication Uses; and
(g) Accessory Uses customarily ancillary to the uses permitted in this section.
Conditions of Use
5.1 A minimum of 20% of the total dwelling unit area must be below-market rental units.
5.2 The design and layout of at least 35% of the total number of below-market rental units and
at least 35% of the total number of other dwelling units must:
(a) be suitable for family housing; and
(b) have 2 or more bedrooms, of which:
(i) at least 25% of the total dwelling units must be 2-bedroom units, and
(ii) at least 10% of the total dwelling units must be 3-bedroom units.
5.3 All commercial uses and accessory uses must be carried on wholly within a completely
enclosed building, other than the following:
(a) display of flowers, plants, fruits and vegetables in combination with a permitted
use;
(b) farmers’ market;
(c) neighbourhood public house;
(d) public bike share; and
(e) restaurant,
except that the Director of Planning may vary this regulation to permit the outdoor display
of retail goods, and the Director of Planning may impose any conditions the Director of
Planning considers necessary, having regard to the types of merchandise, the area and
location of the display with respect to adjoining sites, the hours of operation and the intent
of this by-law.
Floor Area and Density
6.1 Computation of floor area must assume that the site area is 1,673.4 m2, being the site
area at the time of the application for the rezoning evidenced by this by-law, prior to any
dedications.
6.2 The maximum floor space ratio for all uses combined is 6.8.6.3 The total floor area used for commercial uses must be a minimum of 160.0 m2.
6.4 Computation of floor area must include all floors having a minimum ceiling height of 1.2 m,
both above and below base surface, measured to the extreme outer limits of the building.
6.5 Computation of floor area and dwelling unit area must exclude:
(a) balconies and decks and any other appurtenances which, in the opinion of the
Director of Planning, are similar to the foregoing, provided that:
(i) the total area of these exclusions must not exceed 12% of the permitted
floor area, and
(ii) the balconies must not be enclosed for the life of the building;
(b) patios and roof decks, if the Director of Planning considers the impact on privacy
and outlook;
(c) floors or portions thereof that are used for:
(i) off-street parking and loading located at or below base surface, provided
that the maximum exclusion for a parking space does not exceed 7.3 m in
length,
(ii) bicycle storage, and
(iii) heating and mechanical equipment, or uses that the Director of Planning
considers similar to the foregoing;
(d) entries, porches and verandahs if the Director of Planning first approves the
design;
(e) all residential storage area above or below base surface, except that if residential
storage area above base surface exceeds 3.7 m2 per dwelling unit, there will be no
exclusion for any of the residential storage area above base surface for that unit;
and
(f) all storage area below base surface for non-dwelling uses.
6.6 The Director of Planning or Development Permit Board may exclude common amenity
areas from the computation of floor area, to a maximum of 10% of the total permitted floor area,
if the Director of Planning or Development Permit Board considers the intent of this by-law and all
applicable Council policies and guidelines.
6.7 Where floor area associated with residential storage area is excluded, a minimum of 20%
of excluded floor area above base surface must be located within the below-market rental units
as storage area.Building Height
7.1 Building height must not exceed 65.2 m.
7.2 Despite section 7.1 of this by-law and the building height regulations in section 10 of the
Zoning and Development By-law, if the Director of Planning permits common rooftop amenity
space, architectural features, or mechanical appurtenances including elevator overrun and
rooftop access structures, the height of the portions of the building with the permitted common
rooftop amenity space, architectural features, or mechanical appurtenances must not exceed
72.6 m.
Access to Natural Light
8.1 Each habitable room must have at least 1 window on an exterior wall of a building.
8.2 For the purposes of section 8.1 above, habitable room means any room except a bathroom
or a kitchen.
Severability
9. A decision by a court that any part of this by-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this by-law, and is not to affect the balance of this by-law.
Force and Effect
10. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 5th day of May, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk