BY-LAW NO. 14689
A By-law to amend Electrical By-law No. 5563
Regarding BC Electrical Safety Regulation Changes and Miscellaneous Amendments
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
1. This by-law amends the indicated provisions of Electrical By-law 5563.
2. In Section 1.3, Council inserts the following new definition in the correct alphabetical order:
““energy management system” is a means used to control loads through the process of
connecting, disconnecting, increasing, or reducing electric power to the loads and
consisting of any of the following: a monitor(s), communications equipment, a controller(s),
a timer(s), and other applicable device(s).”.
3. Council adds a new section 5.25A in the correct alphanumerical order as follows::
“5.25A If errors or omissions in a permit application are identified by the City
Electrician during the application intake and review process and an
applicant resubmits the application, the resubmission shall be accompanied
by the application resubmission review fee as set out in Schedule A of this
By-law, and the City Electrician may extend the six month limitation set out
in section 5.26.”.
4. In Section 5.27, after wording “If a permit application has expired as outlined in
Section 5.26” Council inserts “, is void”.
5. Council strikes out Section 7.1 and substitutes the following:
“7.1 Council adopts and makes part of this By-law the Canadian Electrical Code,
Part I, 26th Edition, Safety Standard for Electrical Installations, Canadian
Standards Association Standard C22.1:24, subject to any variations adopted
pursuant to the Safety Standards Act.”.
6. Council adds a new section 7.3.8 in the correct numerical order as follows:
“7.3.8 Energy Management Systems
(a) Electrical installations for energy management systems, including the
service capacity of the installation and the number and distribution of
circuits and receptacles, shall conform to the Canadian Electrical Code,
Part I.
(b) The performance of the energy management system must be established
to the satisfaction of the City Electrician.”.
7. In Schedule A, Council adds a new Section 14 in the correct numerical order as follows:
“14. The fee for a review of a resubmitted permit application where errors or
omissions were identified during the application intake and review process
pursuant to Section 5.25A shall be $282.00”8. A decision by a court that any part of this By-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs
that part from this By-law, and is not to affect the balance of this By-law.
9. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 5th day of May, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk