BY-LAW NO. 14704
A By-law to amend Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849
to authorize electronic signs on streets
1. This By-law amends the indicated provisions of the Street and Traffic By-law No. 2849.
2. Council adds a new section 71K as follows:
“ELECTRONIC SIGNS
71K. (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this or any other By-law, the City
Engineer may issue a permit for a person to construct, maintain and
operate an electronic sign on a street.
(2) The City Engineer may impose conditions on a permit for an electronic
sign on street regarding:
(a) traffic and safety matters;
(b) hours and levels of illumination;
(c) construction requirements;
(d) timing of construction;
(e) timing of and requirements for reviews and inspections;
(f) the term of the permit;
(g) responsibilities of the permit holder;
(h) the size, appearance, location, design and form of the sign;
(i) operational matters including how long the static image must
remain static and how quickly an image must transition to the next
image;
(j) proof of commercial general liability insurance, wrap-up liability
insurance, or other insurance, to the satisfaction of the Director of
Risk Management, naming the City as an additional named insured;
and
(k) compliance with this by-law or other enactments.
(3) Every person applying for a permit for an electronic sign must apply in
writing to the City Engineer.
(4) No person may apply for or hold a permit for an electronic sign unless they
have entered into a valid agreement with the City authorizing the placement
of an electronic sign on the proposed site.(5) Any agreement with the City must stipulate the term of the agreement, the
rent, indemnities in favour of the City and may include such other terms as
are considered necessary and be executed by the City Engineer on behalf
of Council.
(6) The City Engineer may revoke a permit for an electronic sign if the permit
holder breaches any condition of the permit or if the agreement is
terminated or expires.
(7) In this section 71K:
“Electronic Sign” means a third-party electronic advertising sign:
(a) that displays an electronic static image where the image remains
static on the screen for a stipulated period of time and the transition
between images occurs within a stipulated period of time;
(b) that is self-supporting and is attached to the ground; and
(c) that complies with the terms of the permit issued for the sign.
“Street” does not include the roadway.”.
3. A decision by a court that any part of this By-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs that
part from this By-law, and is not to affect the balance of this By-law.
4. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on the date of its enactment.
ENACTED by Council this 19th day of May, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Katrina Leckovic”
City Clerk