BY-LAW NO. 14748
A By-law to amend
Downtown Official Development Plan By-law No. 4912
to implement changes required by section 634 of the Vancouver Charter
THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER, in public meeting, enacts as follows:
1. This by-law amends the indicated provisions of Schedule A of the Downtown Official
Development Plan, By-law No. 4912.
2. In the section entitled “Definitions”, Council strikes the following definitions in their entirety:
(a) “Secured market rental housing”; and
(b) “Social Housing”.
3. In Section 3 – Density, Council:
(a) adds the following paragraph before subsection 1:
“Developments requiring social housing are subject to Schedule J: Affordable
Housing Schedule in the Zoning and Development By-law.”;
(b) in subsection 1:
(i) in the description for density area L, strikes the following:
“● the maximum density for all uses for a site with social housing shall
be floor space ratio 5.00 provided that social housing comprises more
than two-thirds of the floor space ratio;”;
(ii) in the description for density area L2, strikes “may be increased to” and
replaces it with “is floor space ratio”;
(iii) in the description for density area M, strikes the following:
“● the maximum density for all uses for a site with social housing shall
be floor space ratio 5.00 provided that social housing comprises more
than two-thirds of the floor space ratio;”;
(c) strikes subsection 2 and replaces it with the following:
“2. Despite subsection 1, the maximum density for a site with dwelling uses in
the following areas denoted on Map 1 shall be:
(a) in the area denoted by the letter ‘C2’, floor space ratio 6.00, provided
that the site has a maximum site frontage of 23 m and either the form
of tenure for the residential floor area:
(i) is secured as 100% residential rental tenure; or(ii) includes any tenure other than residential rental tenure, a
minimum of 67% of the residential floor area is developed as
social housing; and
(b) in the areas denoted by the letters ‘L1’, ‘L2’, and ‘M’, floor space ratio
5.00, provided that a minimum of 67% of the residential floor area is
developed as social housing.”.
(d) in subsection 4(b):
(i) strikes subsections (i) through (v);
(ii) strikes the following:
“social housing comprises a minimum of two-thirds of the floor space ratio or
if secured market rental housing comprises all of the residential units, on a
site with a maximum frontage of 23 m, the Development Permit Board may
permit an increase in density to a maximum floor space ratio of 6.00 if the
Development Permit Board first considers:”
and replaces it with the following:
“the site is developed in accordance with subsection 2.”
(e) in subsection 6:
(i) in subsection (g)(ii), strikes “and”;
(ii) in subsection (h), strikes the period at the end of the sentence and replaces
it with “; and”;
(iii) after subsection (h) adds a new section (i) as follows:
“(i) the following ancillary social, cultural and recreational amenities and
facilities to a maximum of 20% of permitted floor space ratio or
10,000 square feet, whichever is the lesser:
(i) saunas,
(ii) tennis courts,
(iii) swimming pools,
(iv) squash courts,
(v) gymnasiums and workout rooms,
(vi) games rooms and hobby rooms, and
(vii) day care centres.”;(f) in subsection 7(b):
(i) in subsection (ii), strikes the “and” located after “use;”;
(ii) in subsection (iii), strikes the period and replaces it with “; and”;
(g) adds a new subsection 7(c) after subsection 7(b) as follows:
“(c) areas accessory to hotel use:
(i) in the areas denoted by the letters ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C1’, ‘C3’, ‘F’ and ‘O’ on
Map 1; and
(ii) in the area denoted by the letter ‘G’ on Map 1 on sites fronting
Georgia Street,
to a maximum of 20% of the total permitted floor area, limited to meeting
rooms, conference facilities, guest recreational facilities such as fitness
centres, swimming pools and locker areas, libraries, business centres and
other areas that the Director of Planning considers similar to the foregoing.”;
(h) in subsection 11, strikes “5” and replaces it with “6”;
(i) in subsection 14:
(i) strikes “10 percent” and replaces it with “10%”;
(ii) strikes “2 or a development where there has been an increase in floor space
ratio by means of amenity shares pursuant to subsection 15” and replaces it
with “7(c)”; and
(j) strikes subsection 15, including Table 3.1.
4. In Section 4 – Height of Buildings, Council:
(a) in section 3, strikes “the provision of pedestrian amenities and public realm
requirements” and replaces it with “public realm improvements”; and
(b) in Table 1:
(i) in the line for Area 1:
(A) in column 2 after “22.9 m” adds the following:
“, except that if the form of tenure is secured as residential rental
tenure for 100% of the residential floor area, or a minimum of 67% of
the residential floor area is developed as social housing, the height
must not exceed 32.0 m.”;
(B) strikes all of the text in column 3; and(ii) in the line for Area 6:
(A) in column 2, after “21.3 m”, adds “or 36.6 m for developments with
social housing”;
(B) strikes all of the text in column 3.
5. In section 7 – Social, Cultural and Recreational Amenities and Facilities, Council:
(a) strikes part I;
(b) renumbers part II as part I;
(c) in part I:
(i) in the title, strikes “Bonuses” and replaces it with “Relaxations”; and
(ii) strikes subsection (d) and replaces it with the following:
“(d) the value of any authorized relaxation of other restrictions,
except that for libraries (public) or other facilities of a public service, social
or recreational nature which, in the opinion of the Development Permit
Board, are similar to libraries (public) or the ancillary social, cultural and
recreational amenities and facilities listed in section 3(6)(i), the permitted
floor space ratio may be relaxed to a maximum of 20% of the permitted floor
space ratio or 10,000 square feet, whichever is the lesser.”.
6. This by-law is to come into force and take effect on June 30, 2026.
ENACTED by Council this 3rd day of June, 2026
Signed “Ken Sim”
Mayor
Signed “Jason Twa”
City Clerk