PARK BOARD MEETING HIGHLIGHTS
⎯ May 25, 2026 ⎯
The following information is intended to provide a brief overview of the Board’s governance work
at the Committee and Board meetings. The full agenda, meeting materials, video clips and official
minutes can be found on the Park Board website.
STAFF REPORTS / PRESENTATIONS
Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework for Main Festival Site at Vanier
Park
The Board approved the report, which directs staff to explore the development of a new multi-
year agreement framework for Bard on the Beach at their main festival location in Vanier Park.
Bard on the Beach is Western Canada’s largest not-for-profit, professional Shakespeare Festival.
Faced with emerging financial and operational pressures, staff from both organizations are
engaging collaboratively to identify opportunities to enable Festival cost savings and enhance
Park Board revenue streams. Opportunities for collaboration include winterizing and maintaining
the mainstage tent year-round, upgrading pathways for year-round use, a year-round marquee or
covered gathering structure, and washroom trailer solutions. Subject to a positive assessment,
Park Board staff will report back to the Board for the proposed terms of a new agreement
framework.
CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Digby highlighted recent events attended by commissioners:
- Liaison Roles – Chair Digby – Chair Digby attended meetings the Associations Presidents
Group, the Britannia Community Services Society, and Stanley Park Ecology
- Sunset Seniors Centre Grand Opening – Commissioner attended the grand opening
ceremony of the Sunset Seniors Centre
- KDS Vancouver Kabaddi Tournament – Commissioners attended the Khalsa Diwan
Society Vancouver Kabaddi Tournament at Memorial South Park
- Guru Nanak Jahaz Proclamation – Commissioner Virdi attended the City of Vancouver
Proclamation for Guru Nanak Jahaz
- Guru Nanak Jahaz 112th Anniversary – Commissioner Virdi attended the Guru Nanak
Jahaz 112th Anniversary at Harbour Green Park
- Kits Basketball Court Resurfacing – Commissioners attended the unveiling of the newly
resurfaced basketball courts at Kitsilano Beach Park
- 2026 Sponsor Media Appreciation Invitational – Commissioner Jensen attended the 2026
Sponsor Media Appreciation Invitational at Mayfair Lakes Golf Course
- Memorial South Park Centennial Celebration - Commissioner Jensen attended the
Memorial South Park Centennial Celebration
- Park Visits – Comr. Jensen – Commissioner Jensen visited Columbia Park, Oakridge
Community Centre and the Farmers Markets at False Creek and Southeast False Creek
- Steam Engine 374 Celebration – Commissioner Jensen attended the Engine 374
Celebration at Roundhouse Community Centre
Page 1 of 3 29-May-26- Vancouver Art Book Fair – Commissioner Jensen attended the Vancouver Art Book Fair
at Roundhouse Community Centre
- VLBC Open House – Commissioner Jensen attended the Vancouver Lawn Bowling Club
Open House
- Moberly Arts & Culture Centre Tour – Chair Digby attended a tour of the Moberly Arts &
Culture Centre, hosted by the board representative Phil Daum
- Kits Tennis Court Resurfacing – Chair Digby and Commissioner Jensen visited the newly
resurfaced tennis courts at Kitsilano Beach Park
- Meeting with Jim Clive – Chair Digby and Commissioner Jensen met with Jim Clive,
founder of Kits Beach Volleyball Association
GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
The General Manager presented an overview of the GM’s report:
- Slocan Park Children and Youth Hub Construction – Construction works are underway for
the project, and will include a new multi-use sport court, a new concrete skateboard park
and a renewed playground to help meet the demands of a growing neighbourhood. The
project is anticipated to be completed by the end of 2026.
- CRAB Park Art Project - Park Board staff have since been working to respond to local
Nations’ requests for cultural visibility within CRAB park following several improvements
in July 2025. Staff invited artists representing the Nations’ and Urban Indigenous
communities for the art project, which will be incorporated into select playground panels
and painted directly onto the splash pad surface. To accommodate this work, the splash
pad will be closed until the end of June 2026.
- Summer Temporary Washrooms – 20 temporary porta-potty toilets have been deployed
at the Stanley Park Info Booth, Prospect Point, and Sunset Beach to improve customer
experience during the high season. The units were delivered on May 11, final project
completion and unit removal are scheduled for September 8, 2026.
- Youth Week 2026 Highlights – May 1 to 7 marked Provincial Youth Week in BC. To mark
the occasion, Community Youth Workers organized a range of large-scale activations
designed to engage youth in fun, inclusive, and meaningful ways. A total of 12 events
engaged approximately 900 youth during the week.
- VanDusen Botanical Garden Learning Garden – More than 1,200 children participated in
gardening programs at the Learning Garden in 2025, and the garden has become a key
feature in mayor events at VanDusen. Volunteers also play an integral part of the garden’s
success, with over 1,200 hours of support given every year.
- Spring Savings Flexipass Promotion – A new Spring Savings marketing campaign has
wrapped with strong results. The promotion offered at 25% discount of a 3-month
Flexipass from April 7 to May 10. 6,341 individuals took advantage of the special offer,
increasing pass sales by 48% and total pass revenue by 82% compared to the same
period last year.
Page 2 of 3 29-May-26- 25 Years of Service Awards – On May 4, sixteen Park Board employees were recognized
at the 25 Years of Service Award Ceremony. The event was held to honour and celebrate
Park Board staff who have reached this significant milestone and to express appreciation
for their continued dedication and commitment to their work.
BOARD MOTIONS
Recognition of Jim Clive and Howard Kelsey for Their Contributions to Sport and
Community at Kitsilano Beach Park
The Board approved the motion, which formally acknowledged the contributions of Jim Clvie and
Howard Kelsey to Kitsilano Beach Park and the broader Vancouver recreation system. Staff were
also directed to report back with options to commemorate their legacy within the Kitsinalo Beach
Park project, including consideration for naming of the beach volleyball and basketball courts
consistent with Park Board naming policies, or other appropriate recognition measures, including
plaques or dedications.
Waiving 2026 Vancouver Park Board Fees for Italian Day on The Drive
The Board approved the motion, which directs staff to waive all applicable Vancouver Park Board
fees associated with the 2026 Italian Day on The Drive festival, including event-related permit and
park use fees where operationally feasible.
NEXT MEETINGS
The next Committee and Board meetings are scheduled for June 1, 2026.
Page 3 of 3 29-May-26