Park Board General Manager’s Report
May 25, 2026
The following report is intended to provide an overview and update on recent and upcoming activities within
the Park Board.
Slocan Park Children and Youth Hub Construction
Construction works are underway for the Slocan Park Children and Youth Hub. The concept plan
for the project was approved by the Board on June 16, 2025. The project includes a new multi-
use sport court, a new concrete skateboard park and a renewed playground that will create a
vibrant, welcoming destination for all ages, with a focus on children and youth and help meet the
demands of a growing neighbourhood.
The youth hub is located directly adjacent the new seasonal wetland Green Infrastructure Project
which is in the final stages of completion. The wetland will manage all of the youth hub’s
stormwater and compliment the new recreational features with natural habitat for birds, insects
and other creatures. Construction works are anticipated to be completed by the end of 2026.
CRAB Park Art Project
In July 2025, several improvements were completed at CRAB Park, including a playground
renewal and splash pad refresh. Park Board staff have since been working closely with the Arts,
Reconciliation, and Culture (ARC) team to respond to local Nations’ requests for cultural visibility
within the park.
Park Board staff invited the following artists representing xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam Indian
Band), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish Nation), səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh Nation), and
Urban Indigenous communities for the art project: Chief Janice George, Buddy Joseph, Candace
Thomas, Bracken Hanuse Corlett, and Chrystal Sparrow.
The artwork will be incorporated into select playground panels and painted directly onto the splash
pad surface. To accommodate this work, the spray park at CRAB Park will be temporarily closed
until the end of June. The Vancouver Park Board is grateful to the Vancouver Fraser Port Authority
and DP World for their financial contributions towards this project.
Summer Temporary Washrooms
To improve customer experience during the high season, 20 temporary porta-potty toilets (15
standard, 5 accessible) have been deployed at the Stanley Park Information Booth, Prospect
Point, and Sunset Beach locations. The units were delivered on May 11, 2026, working with the
Park Board’s existing SuperSave standing contract. The units will remain operational for 120 days
through Labour Day.
Siting was finalized through cross-departmental collaboration. Staff also conducted on-site
meetings with local operators, including Stanley Park Tours and the Prospect Point Restaurant
and Café to ensure the selected siting allows easy public access without disrupting existing
operations. Final project completion and unit removal are scheduled for September 8, 2026.
Page 1 of 4 25-May-26Youth Week 2026 Highlights
May 1 to 7 marked Provincial Youth Week in British Columbia, a time to celebrate and recognize
youth across the province.To mark the occasion, Community Youth Workers organized a range
of large-scale activations designed to engage youth in fun, inclusive, and meaningful ways.
The week began on Friday, May 1 at Hastings Community Centre, with a carnival-style event
featuring inflatables, an arcade truck, skateboarding, a mini resource fair, prizes, and a BBQ in
partnership with members of the Vancouver Fire Department. On the evening of Saturday, May
2, the Queer Teen Social at False Creek Community Centre where the team created a supportive
and affirming space for youth, with activities like music, games, arts and crafts, and opportunities
for creative expression. On Tuesday, May 5, Killarney Community Centre hosted its annual
volleyball tournament. This event emphasized participation, fun, and sport for life, rather than
competition alone.
In addition to these larger city-wide events, many community centres hosted smaller events,
supported by Community Centre Associations. These activations were planned in collaboration
with site-based youth councils, ensuring that Youth Week reflected the interests and voices of
young people in each community. A total of 12 events engaged approximately 900 youth during
Youth Week. Thanks to Community Youth Workers for their leadership and for Community Center
Associations for their partnership.
VanDusen Botanical Garden Learning Garden
The Learning Garden at VanDusen Botanical Garden, promotes hands-on learning and
showcases the importance of plants in everyday life. The new 13,950 sq. ft. space features raised
planters, demonstration and potting areas, and interactive educational signage focused on
sustainability and edible gardening. The garden renovation project was completed in 2024,
collaboratively between the Vancouver Park Board and the Vancouver Botanical Gardens
Association. The VBGA fundraised most of the construction costs, while Park Board Planning and
VanDusen Operations teams played key roles in delivering the project.
In 2025, more than 1,200 children participated in gardening programs through nature camps,
while the garden also hosted Preschool Wonder Walks, adult gardening courses, professional
development opportunities for K-12 educators, newcomer senior programs through Mosaic, and
gardening programs with various accessibility focused community organizations. Through a
partnership with the Native Education College Indigenous Land Stewardship program, students
also maintain a legacy garden bed that will continue to be maintained and learning tool for future
students in the program.
The Learning Garden has also become a key feature of major events including Harvest Days,
Pollinator Days, and VanDusen’s 50th Anniversary celebrations.
Devoted volunteers play an integral part of the garden’s success, with over 1,200 hours of support
given every year.
Page 2 of 4 25-May-26Spring Savings Flexipass Promotion
A new Spring Savings marketing campaign has wrapped with strong results. The promotion
offered a 25% discount on a 3-month Flexipass from April 7 to May 10, encouraging new and
casual fitness, pool and rink visitors to try a Flexipass at a reduced rate and build a fun, flexible
fitness routine ahead of the summer season. The limited time offer helped create a sense of
urgency, while bringing the pass to a price point that was competitive with private gyms in the city.
The marketing plan included significant in-facility advertising, with pop-up banners, posters and
decals in community centres, pools, rinks, fitness centres, golf courses and high-traffic outdoor
park washrooms. The campaign was also supported by a strong digital push through email
marketing, social media and Meta advertising.
In total, 6,341 individuals took advantage of the special offer. During the promotional period, total
pass sales increased by 48% and total pass revenue increased by 82% compared to the same
period last year. This represents a $500,000 increase in pass revenue compared to the same
period in 2025.
In addition to driving pass sales, the promotion significantly increased awareness of the Flexipass
and Vancouver's recreational facilities, generating more than 1 million impressions on social
media content throughout the campaign. The promotion encouraged Vancouver residents to stay
active and healthy, and to enjoy Vancouver's many fun and accessible recreation facilities.
25 Years of Service Awards
On May 4, sixteen Park Board employees were recognized at the 25 Years of Service Award
Ceremony. The event was held to honour and celebrate PB staff members who have reached
this significant milestone and to express appreciation for their continued dedication and
commitment to their work.
GM Jackson had the honour of presenting awards and conveying his heartfelt appreciation to the
following staff members:
From Business Services: James Pickett – Gardener, Rosemary Yip - Train Operations Team
Lead, Shaun Longpre - Site Supervisor, and Yuna Flewin - Operations Manager Filming and
Special Events.
From Park Operations: Avtar Dhaliwal - Building Worker, Dave Clairmont - Operations
Worker/Park Attendant, Demetri Stratidakis - Truck Driver, Jamie Cole – Superintendent, and
Mariusz Sordyl - Equipment Operator
From Recreation Services: Eamon Mcginley – Superintendent, Henry Lee - Maintenance
Technician – Lead Hand, Trout Lake Community Centre, Kari Ward - Recreation Programmer,
Mark Serediak - Building Worker, Michael Mcneilly - Utility Maintenance Worker, Shannon Ellis-
Cabral - Head Skate Instructor, and Suzy Parker - Community Youth Worker
He also extended his thanks and congratulations to those who were unable to attend the
ceremony.
Page 3 of 4 25-May-26Board Briefing Memos and Emails: May 4 to May 25
Date Topic
Nelson Park Lord Roberts Annex School – BC Hydro Substation and Coal
May 7
Harbour Park Playground Updates
May 7 Kerrisdale Pool Opening Delay – Update
May 11 2026 Private Tree Sale Update
May 13 2026 Summer Recreation Activations
May 13 Installation of the Guru Nanak Jahaz (Komagata Maru) Memorial
May 13 Gore Avenue and Union Street Green Space
May 13 Pool Time Reallocation - VAC Closure
May 15 2026 Q1 Park Board Financial Update
GVWD Stanley Park Water Supply Tunnel Update and Temporary Use of
May 15
Sunset Beach Park
May 15 Completion of Kitsilano Sport Court Renewal Project
May 21 Stanley Park - Hemlock Looper and Wildfire Risk Mitigation Update
Page 4 of 4 25-May-26