Report Date: May 14, 2026
VanRIMS No.: 08-3000-30
Submit comments to the Board
TO: Park Board Chair and Commissioners
FROM: Director, Business Services
Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework for Main Festival Site
SUBJECT:
at Vanier Park
RECOMMENDATIONS
A. THAT the Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation (“Park Board”) direct staff to explore
the development of a new multi-year agreement framework for Bard on the Beach at
their main festival location in Vanier Park;
B. THAT, subject to a positive assessment, the Park Board direct staff to present the
proposed terms of a new agreement framework to the Board at the earliest possible
date; and
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations shall arise, and no consents, permissions, or licenses
are granted hereby, and none shall arise or be granted hereafter unless and until all
contemplated legal documentation has been executed and delivered by all parties.
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY
Bard on the Beach (“BOTB” or “Festival”) is Western Canada’s largest not-for-profit professional
Shakespeare Festival. The Festival is presented in Vancouver’s Vanier Park against a backdrop
of mountains, sea, and sky.
Like many other organizations in the performing arts sector, BOTB continues to face significant
post-pandemic financial pressures. Staff from BOTB and the Park Board have worked
collaboratively since 2024 to explore opportunities to address these financial challenges. A quick
win opportunity (leaving the Festival’s mainstage arches onsite at Vanier Park during the event’s
off-season) was identified and approved by the Board in October 2024. More recently, in March
2026, the Board approved the leasing of space to the Festival at the Burrard Civic Marina land
storage lot for use as a temporary storage facility for a period of ten (10) years.
The purpose of this report is to present an additional and new opportunity which involves
exploring the development of a long-term multi-year agreement framework for BOTB’s main
festival location in Vanier Park, explain the needs and benefits of this initiative, and seek the
Board’s approval to explore the opportunity for a period of up to ten (10) years.
Park Board Meeting: May 25, 2026Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework Page 2
BOARD AUTHORITY / PREVIOUS DECISIONS
Per the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board has exclusive jurisdiction and control over parkland
use in the City of Vancouver (including any structures, programs and activities, fees, and
improvements within parks) and approves the use of all lands under its jurisdiction on such terms
as the Park Board may decide.
On June 22, 2020, at an in camera meeting (with the decision subsequently made public in a
memo to the Board on March 2, 2023), the Park Board approved a series of Planning Principles
as a framework for initiating a collaborative master planning process for Vanier Park between
the Park Board and the xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), and
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) peoples (“MST” or “Host Nations”). This work would be undertaken
jointly with the City of Vancouver’s Arts, Culture and Community Services department (ACCS).
While staff have undertaken initial outreach to the Host Nations, the timeline for undertaking a
full planning process and associated public and stakeholder engagement is not currently
confirmed.
On January 16, 2023, the Board approved the “Think Big” Revenue Strategy motion to prioritize
and enable opportunities for increased commercial revenues. Subsequently, on July 17, 2023,
the Board endorsed the Think Big Action Plan as presented in Appendix A in the “Think Big”
Revenue Strategy – Report Back: July 6, 2023, and further validated the preliminary revenue-
generating opportunities presented in Appendix D, which included enabling seasonal/temporary
park attractions/services and activating public spaces.
On October 21, 2024, at a public meeting, the Park Board approved an application from BOTB
for a pilot program enabling the Festival’s mainstage arches to remain on site at Vanier Park
during the event’s off-season between November 2024 and March 2025. The Board
subsequently approved the continuation of this pilot program between November 2025 and
March 2026, and conditionally in future years, at a public meeting on November 3, 2025.
On March 30, 2026, at a public meeting, the Park Board approved an application from BOTB
to lease approximately 20,000 square feet of space in the Burrard Civic Marina land storage
area for use as a temporary storage facility, including the installation of a 7,000 square foot
Quonset tent structure, for a period of ten (10) years.
CONTEXT AND BACKGROUND
Overview
Established in 1990, Bard on the Beach is Western Canada’s largest not-for-profit professional
Shakespeare Festival. A longstanding Vancouver favourite, the Festival is presented in
Vancouver’s Vanier Park against a backdrop of mountains, sea, and sky, and offers Shakespeare
plays, related dramas, and special events in two modern performance tents from June through
September. The Festival is known for its signature blend of high-quality artistic programming and
a welcoming, informal experience for local residents and visitors from around the world.
Financial Issues/Market Pressures
The performing arts sector continues to face significant post-pandemic pressures, and BOTB is
navigating a particularly challenging financial reality. Since 2020, the Festival has experienced a
sustained 20% decline in ticket sales alongside a 25% increase in operating costs, resulting in a
projected deficit of more than $1 million in 2026 without meaningful structural change. With only
4% of revenue coming from public funding – compared to 30 to 50% for peer organizations –
BOTB relies heavily on earned income while absorbing the full cost of building, dismantling,
Park Board Meeting: May 25, 2026Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework Page 3
transporting, and storing its seasonal infrastructure each year. Despite generating significant
amounts of parking revenue annually for the City and operating entirely on civic-managed land,
the Festival remains ineligible for key municipal supports tied to civic facilities. In this context,
reducing repeatable, structural costs has become an urgent strategic priority, allowing BOTB to
protect its artistic, education, and community programs while improving environmental
performance and ensuring long-term financial sustainability without increased reliance on public
funding.
Collaborative Planning & Pilot Program
Staff from BOTB and the Park Board have been working collaboratively since 2024 to identify
opportunities to address or reduce BOTB’s financial pressures for the mutual benefit of the
Festival, park users, and the Park Board. In particular, the financial and logistical realities of
BOTB’s signature infrastructure have become increasingly challenging and threaten the
Festival’s financial and programmatic sustainability. Through these discussions, a quick win pilot
program opportunity was identified in late 2024 which involved leaving the Festival’s mainstage
arches onsite at Vanier Park during the event’s off-season between mid-November and mid-
March. The pilot program, which was successfully implemented and resulted in no park
user/community complaints, was recently renewed for future years.
More recently, BOTB received approval to lease approximately 20,000 square feet of space in
the Burrard Civic Marina land storage area for use as a temporary storage facility, including the
installation of a 7,000 square foot Quonset tent structure, for a period of ten (10) years.
New Opportunity
Through on-going discussions between BOTB and Park Board staff, an additional opportunity
has been identified with the potential to provide important expense and logistical relief for BOTB,
while transferring no costs to the Park Board, enabling additional Park Board revenue streams,
and improving park usability during off-season months. This new opportunity involves supporting
BOTB by exploring the development of a new long term multi-year agreement framework of up
to 10-years (as opposed to the annual permit process which has been in place since 1990).
DISCUSSION
Program Proposal
Building on the success of the above-mentioned initiatives, BOTB is seeking the Park Board’s
support to work with Park Board staff to investigate and explore a broader, more coordinated
strategy that would enable additional investments to enhance overall park usability and allow
additional physical assets to remain in the park year-round. These assets would not be
permanent, would continue to meet high standards of security, accessibility, and financial
prudence, and would remain removable if required. The intent of this next phase is to:
• Reduce repeated annual construction and dismantling activities;
• Minimize environmental impacts;
• Lower long-term operating costs for BOTB; and
• Improve park usability, accessibility and public enjoyment.
To enable the cost reductions and operational efficiencies associated with expanded year-round
infrastructure, BOTB is requesting that this investigation be considered alongside a longer-term
planning framework, including up to a ten (10) year agreement for its Vanier Park operations.
Lease certainty is essential to responsibly investing in non-permanent, reversible infrastructure,
Park Board Meeting: May 25, 2026Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework Page 4
amortize capital improvements, reduce risk from repeated short-term approvals, and align multi-
year planning with Park Board asset management and VanPlay objectives.
Areas or opportunities for investigation and collaboration include:
• Winterizing and retaining the Mainstage tent year-round
The Mainstage tent and its seating platforms are currently dismantled for just over four
months each year, then rebuilt in the spring. Leaving the structure in place through the
offseason could result in significant annual operating savings while reducing labour
demands, emissions, and wear on the park.
• Adding anchor points for the smaller theatre tent
Similar to improvements made to the Mainstage tent in 2011, BOTB would like to
investigate adding anchor points to streamline set-up, improve safety, and reduce
installation time and cost for the Douglas Campbell Theatre tent.
• Upgrading gravel pathways for year-round use
The gravel paths introduced during the pilot successfully improved traffic flow, reduced
machinery damage, and increased accessibility. BOTB would like to expand this initiative
and proposes exploring weather-resistant, year-round pathway solutions that would:
- Eliminate annual installation costs
- Reduce lumber use and waste
− Improve accessibility during BOTB’s season and in the off-season
- Enhance the park experience for all users
• Exploring a year-round marquee or covered gathering structure
Bard would like to investigate options for a multi-use tent or shelter that could serve as a
special-events venue during the season and remain in place during the winter as a
covered public gathering space. Early concepts under consideration include gazebo-style
or other aesthetically integrated structures that provide public benefit beyond BOTB’s
programming.
• Reimagining Bard’s main entranceway
First discussed with the Parks Board in 2014, BOTB proposes revisiting ideas for a
redesigned entrance that could incorporate park amenities such as benches or shelter,
while serving as a welcoming and celebratory marker of Vanier Park as Bard on the
Beach’s summer home. An additional idea is to work with the Squamish Nation to use
this piece as a monument, art installation and/or education opportunity dedicated to the
indigenous history of the area.
• Investigating washroom trailer solutions
BOTB seeks to explore the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of purchasing washroom
trailers with flush toilets and running water. This would:
- Improve comfort for staff, artists, patrons, and volunteers
- Better align with BC legislation regarding worker facilities
- Reduce reliance on portable toilets and waste-removal trucks
Park Board Meeting: May 25, 2026Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework Page 5
Program Benefits
This proposed exploration aligns with the Parks Board’s goals around sustainability,
accessibility, safety, and efficient use of park assets. It builds on past proven initiatives, poses
minimal risk, and offers the potential for:
• Reduce repeated annual construction and dismantling activities;
• Reduced environmental impacts;
• Enable long-term cost efficiencies for BOTB;
• Support a stronger, more resilient cultural partner within Vanier Park;
• Improve park amenities, accessibility and overall experience;
• Enhance year-round park activation and programming; and
• Generate incremental revenues which can be used to provide broader parks and
recreation public service delivery.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Subject to Board approval, Park Board staff will work with Festival organizers to explore the
feasibility of a New Agreement Framework for BOTB’s Main Festival Site at Vanier Park. While
this initiative will require an investment in staff time, there will be no incremental costs to the Park
Board related to this initiative.
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
Subject to Park Board approval, Park Board staff will work collaboratively with BOTB staff to
explore the development of a new multi-year agreement framework. Engagement will also take
place with appropriate internal and external stakeholders and xʷməθkʷəy̓ əm (Musqueam),
Sḵwx̱ wú7mesh Úxwumixw (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) rightsholders.
A separate referral was previously issued to all three Nations to initiate a collaborative park
planning process for Vanier Park. All three Nations have expressed interest in the planning
process and Park Board staff are equally interested in advancing this effort. The Vanier Park plan
is distinct and separate from this new 10-year agreement framework which does not preclude or
alter that invitation to all three Nations on broader planning of Vanier Park.
Navigating the impacts of a potential 10-year agreement with the Nations and the broader Vanier
Park planning effort will be a key consideration during the exploration and assessment effort.
Staff will look to ensure appropriate mitigation efforts are developed and implemented to
minimize any identified impacts. Any unmitigated risks will be clearly articulated when brought to
the Board for consideration.
No legal agreements, rights or obligations shall arise from this initiative. If the exploration of a
new agreement framework proves successful, it will be brought to the Board for review and
consideration.
CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
Bard on the Beach is Western Canada’s largest not-for-profit, professional Shakespeare Festival.
Faced with emerging financial and operational pressures, staff from both organizations are
engaging collaboratively to identify opportunities to enable Festival cost savings and enhance
Park Board revenue streams.
Park Board Meeting: May 25, 2026Bard on the Beach - New Multi-Year Agreement Framework Page 6
After past successful initiatives, a new opportunity has been identified to support the Festival by
exploring the development of a new agreement framework. Park Board staff have carefully
reviewed the various considerations of this opportunity and recommend that the Board approve
the recommendations as outlined in this report.
* * * * *
Park Board Meeting: May 25, 2026