REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MAY 20 AND 21, 2026
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services was held on
Wednesday, May 20, 2026, at 9:56 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall.
Subsequently, the meeting recessed and reconvened on Thursday, May 21, 2026, at 3:13 pm.
This Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the
Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Lenny Zhou, Chair
Mayor Ken Sim* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business – May 20,
2026, 9:30 am to 11 am)
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– May 20, 2026, 9:30 am to 12 pm)
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Pete Fry*
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung* (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – May 20, 2026, 9:30 am to 12 pm)
Councillor Mike Klassen*, Vice Chair (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – May 20, 2026, 9:30 am to 1:30 pm)
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr*
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 2
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 9:59 am and reconvened at 10:04 am.
* * * * *
PROCLAMATION - Eid al-Adha
Mayor Sim, alongside members of Council, proclaimed May 27, 2026, as Eid al-Adha in the city
of Vancouver and welcomed Sumaiyyah Adam to accept the proclamation and say a few words
on behalf of the Muslim Community.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT Council adopt Report 1 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillors Bligh and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
PRESENTATIONS
1. VanStat: Facilities Condition and Maintenance
Staff from Real Estate and Facilities Management, Finance and Supply Chain Management,
Arts, Culture and Community Services, Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation, Vancouver
Fire and Rescue Services, Vancouver Police Department, and Engineering Services provided a
presentation and, along with the City Manager, responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council approve an increase of the Infrastructure Levy from 1% to 2% to reduce
the elimination of the infrastructure deficit by 20 years from 2065 to 2045;
FURTHER THAT appropriate priority in infrastructure renewal be given to ensuring that
emergency response and community hubs are renewed to the Functional Occupancy
standard for ongoing use rather than the minimum required by the Vancouver Building
By-law;
AND FURTHER THAT priority be given to upgrading City of Vancouver-owned public
buildings to make them accessible to disabled persons.
amendedStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 3
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the FURTHER THAT and AND FURTHER THAT clauses be struck.
amended
* * * * *
During discussion of the amendment, Chair Zhou ceded the Chair to Councillor Dominato in
order to provide comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the following be added to the amendment:
FURTHER THAT the following be added to the motion:
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to include a fulsome FCI (Facility
Condition Index) inclusive of all 696 city-owned assets, with clear state of
repair rating, cost of repair, and primacy of needs, independent of any
Council directed priorities, as reference for upcoming capital plan report.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11637)
(Councillor Klassen and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11638) with Councillor Bligh abstaining from the vote and
Councillor Klassen absent for the vote.
The motion as amended was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11639) with
Councillor Klassen absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council approve an increase of the Infrastructure Levy from 1% to 2% to reduce
the elimination of the infrastructure deficit by 20 years from 2065 to 2045;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to include a fulsome FCI (Facility Condition Index)
inclusive of all 696 city-owned assets, with clear state of repair rating, cost of repair, and
primacy of needs, independent of any Council directed priorities, as reference for
upcoming capital plan report.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 4
REPORTS
1. Tree Inspection Policy
April 21, 2026
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council receive the Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled “Tree Inspection Policy,”
and adopt the new Tree Inspection Policy as outlined in the above-noted report and
attached as Appendix D of the same report.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11642)
(Councillors Bligh and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
2. Contract Award for Consultant Services for Cambie Bridge Seismic Upgrade and
Rehabilitation Program
April 21, 2026
The Committee heard from one speaker who spoke in opposition to the report
recommendations.
Staff from Engineering Services responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement for the supply of
engineering design and construction contract administration services for Phase 3
of the multi-year Cambie Bridge Seismic Upgrade and Rehabilitation Program
with Associated Engineering (B.C.) Ltd. for an estimated total contract value of
$6,405,613.00 over the approximate seven (7) year term (the “Agreement”),
which will be funded from Approved Multi-Year Capital Project Budget for Cambie
Bridge Seismic Upgrade and Active Transportation Implementation. Of the total
funding, $1.4M will be funded from the 2023-2026 Capital plan with the remaining
$5.0M being funded from the upcoming 2027-2030 Capital Plan, on an ‘if and
when needed’ basis based on Council’s approval of budget in the 2027-2030
Capital Plan. Should the need arise sooner than the approval, the City will
reprioritise from within existing approved budget to ensure sufficient funding will
be available.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of
the Engineering Services Department.
FURTHER THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by Council’s
approval of Recommendations A and B unless and until the City executes and
delivers the Agreement.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11640)
(Councillor Klassen absent for the vote)Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 5
3. Amendments to Impounding and Vehicles for Hire By-laws
April 21, 2026
Staff from Development, Buildings and Licensing and Engineering Services responded to
questions.
The Committee heard from three speakers who spoke in opposition and one speaker who
spoke to other aspects of the report recommendations.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Meizner
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT under Section 2.8(a) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
noon in order to complete Report 3.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillor Klassen absent for the vote)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve adjustments to the following rates that tow truck operators
are authorized to charge for vehicles and other chattels impounded from city
streets and private property under the Impounding By-law and the Vehicles For
Hire By-law as described in the Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled
“Amendments to Impounding and Vehicles for Hire By-laws”:
a. Increase the per‑kilometre towing rate charged after six kilometres by
three percent for all vehicle weight categories, to align with the ICBC
Towing & Storage Rate Payment Schedule as of December 2025;
b. Increase daily storage rates that towing companies may charge for
impounded vehicles by five and a half percent to align with the ICBC
Towing & Storage Rate Payment Schedule as of December 2025; and
c. Decrease the fuel surcharge to align with the ICBC’s Fuel Surcharge and
Quick Reference Towing Distance Guides as of April 2026.
B. THAT Council approve amendments to the Vehicles for Hire By-law to:
a. Add the following fees for service that towing companies are authorized to
charge on any impounded vehicle retrieved after one full calendar day
following the date of the initial tow:Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 6
i. Registered Owner Search (BC licence plate): $12.50;
ii. Registered Owner Search (Non-BC licence plate): $19;
iii. Lien Search: $26 per lien; and
iv. Registered Mail: $14.59;
b. Require vehicles impounded from commercial parking lots and parking
lots as defined in the Vehicles For Hire By-law, to be stored in Vancouver;
and
c. Remove requirement for licensed tow operators who provide towing
services exclusively at the request of the vehicle owner or operator to
have an established place of business in Vancouver.
C. THAT Council instruct the Director of Legal Services to prepare and bring forward
for enactment amendments to the Impounding By-law No. 3519 and Vehicles for
Hire By-law No. 6066 as generally outlined in Appendices A and B of the Report
dated April 21, 2026, entitled “Amendments to Impounding and Vehicles for Hire
By-laws.”
CARRIED (Vote No. 11641)
(Councillors Maloney and Orr opposed)
(Councillor Meiszner abstained from the vote)
(Councillors Fry, Klassen and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 12:15 pm and reconvened at 1:03 pm.
* * * * *
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Carrying on Joe Fortes’ Legacy: Universal Access to Basic Swimming Lessons
and Expansion of Aquatic Infrastructure as Core Public Safety Policy
The Committee heard from seven speakers who spoke in support, two speakers who spoke in
opposition and two speakers who spoke to other aspects of the motion.
The City Manager responded to questions.
* * * * *
During discussion, Chair Zhou ceded the Chair to Vice-Chair Klassen in order to provide
comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 7
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is one of Canada’s coastal and port cities, with a
long-standing economic, cultural, and recreational relationship to the Pacific
Ocean and its working waterfront, resulting in widespread and ongoing public
exposure to aquatic environments;
2. Drowning remains a leading cause of preventable death among children and
youth, and basic swimming ability is a foundational life skill essential to survival,
safety, and confidence in aquatic environments;
3. The Lifesaving Society and other public safety authorities emphasize that
early-stage swimming instruction, such as floating, treading water, and basic
propulsion, provides the greatest reduction in drowning risk;
4. Swimming is not only a safety skill but also an important family and community
activity, supporting physical health, social connection, and lifelong recreation
across all ages;
5. The legacy of Joe Fortes, widely regarded as Vancouver’s first official lifeguard
and swimming instructor, reflects a long-standing civic commitment to ensuring
residents can safely access and enjoy the city’s waters;
6. Access to swimming lessons in Vancouver is constrained by both user fees and
limited pool capacity, with affordability pressures disproportionately affecting
families with children and newcomers;
7. The Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation currently delivers approximately
1,133 swimming lesson programs annually across introductory levels one
through three, serving approximately 6,498 participants, with associated fee
revenues of approximately $420,590 per year;
8. Past and existing efforts to expand access to swimming instruction have
demonstrated that partnerships between the Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation and the Vancouver School Board can provide an effective and
equitable model for broad-based delivery of introductory swimming education;
9. Municipal governments routinely invest in universal public safety infrastructure,
including fire protection, transportation safety, and parks, without direct user fees,
recognizing the shared societal benefit of prevention;
10. The City has historically adopted per-capita service benchmarks, such as
parkland targets, to guide long-term infrastructure planning, and a similar
approach to aquatic facilities would support equitable access across
neighbourhoods;Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 8
11. The Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation has directed staff to initiate an
update to the VanSplash Aquatics Strategy, with work anticipated to conclude in
early 2027, creating an opportunity to incorporate consideration of aquatic facility
expansion, service level targets, and access objectives arising from this motion
into that planning process prior to subsequent consideration by Council;
12. Other Canadian cities, including Toronto, Calgary, and Edmonton, have
expanded free or low-cost access to recreation programming, recognizing its role
in public health, safety, and affordability; and
13. Addressing both financial barriers and infrastructure capacity constraints is
necessary to ensure universal access to swimming instruction.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council affirm that basic swimming ability is an essential life skill and that
access to introductory swimming instruction should be treated as core public
safety goal.
B. THAT Council direct staff, in consultation with the Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation, to design and implement a program providing free access to the first
three levels of swimming lessons (or equivalent beginner stages) for all residents
of Vancouver, with priority access for children aged 3 to 12.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed per-capita aquatic
infrastructure target (e.g., pools per 10,000 residents or equivalent service
metric) to be achieved by 2035, analogous to the City’s parkland provision
metrics, including:
• Current service levels and geographic distribution;
• Projected population growth and demand; and
• Recommended targets to ensure equitable access across
neighbourhoods.
D. THAT Council direct that all new or replacement aquatic facilities required to
meet the per-capita target be planned and delivered through the City’s Capital
Plan and capital budgeting processes, ensuring long-term, sustainable
investment in aquatic infrastructure;
FURTHER THAT the program and infrastructure strategy be designed to:
• Expand access while managing demand through fair registration
practices;
• Increase instructor recruitment, certification, and retention;
• Explore partnerships with the Vancouver School Board, community
organizations, and senior governments.
E. THAT Staff report back in early 2027 to align with Park Board’s VanSplash
timeline, with:
• A phased implementation plan, including pilot locations;
• Capacity expansion options, including extended pool hours and new
facility delivery;
• Financial analysis, including foregone revenue and incremental
operating costs; andStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 9
• Opportunities for external funding, including provincial and federal
contributions aligned with public health and safety objectives.
F. THAT Council consider funding for both the program and associated capacity
expansion through the City’s annual Operating Budget and Capital Plan
processes, recognizing the initiative as an investment in public safety,
affordability, public health, and community well-being.
G. THAT Council request that the Park Board restore the pre-COVID-19 operational
procedures for Kitsilano Pool, including but not limited to the reintroduction of
full-capacity operations without time-limited swim sessions, the reinstatement of
drop-in public access alongside lane swimming and leisure use, and the
resumption of in-person queuing and admissions practices that enabled flexible,
spontaneous access for residents and visitors throughout the day;
FURTHER THAT Council request that the Park Board report back on the timeline
and operational requirements necessary to reinstate this pre-pandemic service
model in advance of the upcoming summer season.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT in the second bullet in the FURTHER THAT clause in D, add the words
“collaborate with CUPE 15 and CUPE 1004 on improving the working conditions for
auxiliary lifeguards through a retention strategy;” after the words “certification, and”.
lost
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the word “collaborate” be struck and the word “consult” be inserted.
LOST (Vote No. 11644)
(Councillors Dominato, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed)
The amendment to the amendment having lost, the amendment was put and LOST (Vote No.
11645) with Councillors Dominato, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim opposed
and Councillor Kirby-Yung abstaining from the vote.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT in D the words “per the statutory role of the Board of Parks and Recreation” be
inserted after the word “delivered”;
FURTHER THAT in F the word “new” be inserted after the word “consider”;Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 10
AND FURTHER THAT in F the words “to the Board of Parks and Recreation” be added
after the word “funding”.
LOST (Vote No. 11646)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT in G, the words “and all other pools in Vancouver” be inserted after the words
“Kitsilano Pool”.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11647)
(Councillor Fry, Maloney and Orr abstained from the vote)
The amendments having either lost or carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11648).
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council affirm that basic swimming ability is an essential life skill and that
access to introductory swimming instruction should be treated as core public
safety goal.
B. THAT Council direct staff, in consultation with the Vancouver Board of Parks and
Recreation, to design and implement a program providing free access to the first
three levels of swimming lessons (or equivalent beginner stages) for all residents
of Vancouver, with priority access for children aged 3 to 12.
C. THAT Council direct staff to report back with a proposed per-capita aquatic
infrastructure target (e.g., pools per 10,000 residents or equivalent service
metric) to be achieved by 2035, analogous to the City’s parkland provision
metrics, including:
• Current service levels and geographic distribution;
• Projected population growth and demand; and
• Recommended targets to ensure equitable access across
neighbourhoods.
D. THAT Council direct that all new or replacement aquatic facilities required to
meet the per-capita target be planned and delivered through the City’s Capital
Plan and capital budgeting processes, ensuring long-term, sustainable
investment in aquatic infrastructure;
FURTHER THAT the program and infrastructure strategy be designed to:
• Expand access while managing demand through fair registration
practices;
• Increase instructor recruitment, certification, and retention;
• Explore partnerships with the Vancouver School Board, community
organizations, and senior governments.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 11
E. THAT Staff report back in early 2027 to align with Park Board’s VanSplash
timeline, with:
• A phased implementation plan, including pilot locations;
• Capacity expansion options, including extended pool hours and new
facility delivery;
• Financial analysis, including foregone revenue and incremental operating
costs; and
• Opportunities for external funding, including provincial and federal
contributions aligned with public health and safety objectives.
F. THAT Council consider funding for both the program and associated capacity
expansion through the City’s annual Operating Budget and Capital Plan
processes, recognizing the initiative as an investment in public safety,
affordability, public health, and community well-being.
G. THAT Council request that the Park Board restore the pre-COVID-19 operational
procedures for Kitsilano Pool and all other pools in Vancouver, including but not
limited to the reintroduction of full-capacity operations without time-limited swim
sessions, the reinstatement of drop-in public access alongside lane swimming
and leisure use, and the resumption of in-person queuing and admissions
practices that enabled flexible, spontaneous access for residents and visitors
throughout the day;
FURTHER THAT Council request that the Park Board report back on the timeline
and operational requirements necessary to reinstate this pre-pandemic service
model in advance of the upcoming summer season.
2. Supporting Italian Day on Commercial Drive in 2026
Prior to the start of motion 2, Mayor Sim declared a conflict of interest citing he owns a business
on Commercial Drive, and left the meeting and returned at the conclusion of this item.
The Committee heard from three speakers who spoke in support and one speaker who spoke to
other aspects of the motion.
* * * * *
During discussion, Chair Zhou ceded the Chair to Vice-Chair Klassen in order to provide
comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 12
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Italian Day on Commercial Drive is one of Vancouver’s largest and most
well-attended cultural street festivals, celebrating Italian Canadian heritage,
community, and small businesses along Commercial Drive;
2. Italian Day attracts tens of thousands of residents and visitors annually,
contributing to local economic activity, tourism, and the vibrancy of Vancouver’s
public spaces;
3. The delivery of large-scale international events, including the upcoming FIFA
World Cup activities in Vancouver, has created a more competitive sponsorship
and advertising environment in 2026, limiting the ability of long-standing
community festivals to secure traditional corporate support and fundraising
revenues;
4. Italian Day organizers have indicated that these external pressures have
materially affected their ability to raise sufficient funds to deliver the event at its
usual scale and quality, including the loss of valuable street banner revenue
during the FIFA period;
5. It is estimated that the shortfall of funds facing Italian Day organizers is in the
order of $60,000; and
6. The City of Vancouver has a longstanding practice of supporting community
festivals and cultural events that provide broad public benefit, enhance civic
pride, and support local business districts.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council approve a one-time extraordinary grant of up to $60,000 from the
City’s 2026 Operating Budget, or another funding source deemed appropriate by
the General Manager of Finance, to Italian Day Festival Society to assist with
costs associated with organizing and delivering Italian Day on Commercial Drive
in 2026;
FURTHER THAT this grant support is extraordinary and one-time in nature
intended solely to address the unique circumstances arising this year.
B. THAT the grant be conditional on the Italian Day Festival Society entering into a
grant agreement with the City, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the City
Manager (or their designate).
C. THAT Council declare that the grant to the Italian Day Festival Society is in
furtherance of the City’s objectives of supporting culture, community
engagement, local economic activity, and the general welfare of residents,
consistent with section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 13
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations shall arise or be created by this resolution
until such time as the grant agreement is executed by the City and the Italian Day
Festival Society.
E. THAT Council delegate authority to execute the grant agreement for the
associated amount that includes terms and conditions that are consistent with the
intentions of this motion, that satisfy the City’s Director of Legal Services, and
that disburse the grant described in this motion to the City Manager or their
designate.
F. THAT staff be directed to report back, if necessary, on opportunities to ensure
that community festivals are supported and not disproportionately impacted
during years in which major international events are hosted in Vancouver.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A IN MOTION 2
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11648)
(Mayor Sim ineligible to vote due to conflict of interest)
3. Managing and Mitigating Development Pressure on Existing Small Business, Arts,
and Non-Profit Uses
The Committee heard from three speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
The Deputy City Manger responded to questions.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver is experiencing significant redevelopment pressure in many
neighbourhoods, because of residential growth objectives, provincial housing
legislation, and federally supported efforts to accelerate housing supply;
2. Accelerated housing approval processes supported through the federal Housing
Accelerator Fund (HAF) and Provincial legislation, including Housing Supply Act
(Bill 43), Housing Needs Reports & Zoning Consistency (Bill 44), and Transit
Oriented Areas (Bill 47) are intended to increase housing delivery by reducing
development barriers, accelerating permit times, and encouraging increased
density. But these processes also intensify speculative pressure on land values,
commercial property taxes, and rents that are increasingly disconnected from
existing uses and local-serving activities;
3. Independent local businesses, arts and cultural spaces, and non‑profit
organizations typically have limited capacity to absorb the financial impacts, cost
increases, and potential displacement catalyzed by development pressuresStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 14
based on property assessments and future development potential that are
disconnected from current use;
4. In response to displacement: The City of Vancouver offers “resource guides”
through the Commercial Tenant Assistance Program (CTAP)1 to support
relocation planning and decision making for tenants, to help small business to
navigate the commercial real estate market and negotiate lease terms;
5. In response to property assessments: Council has supported targeted,
time‑limited pilot measures, including tax relief, like the 2026 Development
Potential Relief Program By-law 2 to mitigate these pressures, providing valuable
insight into both the need for such tools and the administrative and policy
limitations of relying on year‑to‑year programs;
6. Financial pressures and displacement of existing commercial and community
uses can undermine neighbourhood economic diversity, cultural vitality, local
services, and public confidence in growth‑related change. Many other cities
similarly responding to these challenges have piloted solutions including:
a. PME MTL, Montreal’s business support network 3
Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (Small and Medium-sized Enterprises)
Montreal, provides support for businesses and social economy enterprises
through loans, grants, financing, and coaching at a local neighbourhood level.
Programs includes targeted programs for vacancy reduction, placemaking,
and renovation and relocation costs. They have a mandate to revitalize
commercial streets, stimulate neighbourhood economies, and to provide
capital to offset operating cost pressure;
b. Toronto’s “No Net Loss” of Employment & Cultural Space policies 4
Direct investment for business and Main Streets funding including
commercial space rehabilitation grants, corridor and BIA funding support and
construction mitigation grants, noting: a balance between residential and job
growth is essential to a prosperous economic future for Toronto. The retention
of affordable, cultural space Downtown is important to maintain and enhance
the creative clusters that help position Toronto as a leading and globally
competitive creative capital;
c. Seattle’s Integrated Anti-Displacement Framework and Office of
Economic Development 5
1 City of Vancouver | Commercial Tenant Assistance Program
https://vancouver.ca/doing-business/commercial-tenant-assistance-program.aspx
2 City of Vancouver | 2026 Property Taxation: Development Potential Relief Program By-law report
https://council.vancouver.ca/20260505/documents/r2.pdf
3 City of Montreal | PME MTL
https://pmemtl.com/en/
4 City of Toronto | Employment & Cultural Space
https://www.toronto.ca/legdocs/mmis/2017/pg/bgrd/backgroundfile-106336.pdf
5 City of Seattle | Seattle’s Integrated Anti-Displacement Framework
https://www.seattle.gov/economic-development, https://seattlerestored.org/Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 15
Using data-driven planning, monitoring and evaluation Seattle provides
financial support for commercial tenants, corridor level support, and anti
displacement strategies. The OED’s Seattle Restored directly partners with
small businesses to transform vacant storefronts into vibrant community
spaces;
d. San Francisco’s Legacy Business & Cultural District Protections 6
Provides direct grants, marketing, and assistance to qualified legacy
businesses including Business Stabilization Grants, Rent Stabilization
Grants, and planning. The Cultural Districts program is a place-making and
place-keeping program that preserves, strengthens and promotes cultural
communities with resources including funding and programming; and
e. New York’s various Commercial Tenant Assistance Programs;
7. The Vancouver Charter confers significant and applicable land‑use and
development regulation powers, including: the authority to regulate use, density,
siting, and conditions of development; the ability to impose conditions through
rezoning, development permits, and CD‑1 bylaws; the authority to set municipal
property tax rates, permissive exemptions, and the authority to provide tax relief
for defined classes of property.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to assess and report back on how development
pressures on existing small business, arts, and non-profit uses may intersect with
accelerated housing delivery, including commitments made under the Housing
Accelerator Fund and Provincial housing legislation, with a focus on identifying
unintended impacts that could undermine neighbourhood resilience, local-serving
services, or public support for growth;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back on options for more durable,
permanent approaches—beyond short‑term or pilot programs—to mitigate
development‑related pressures on existing small business, arts, and non‑profit
uses, drawing on lessons learned from the Development Potential Relief
Program and related initiatives.
B. THAT Council direct staff to explore an integrated policy framework that
considers coordinated use of:
• development‑potential tax relief or alternative assessment approaches;
• zoning, land‑use, or regulatory tools that support continuity of existing
small business, arts, and non-profit uses where appropriate;
• commercial tenant transition or mitigation measures in redevelopment
situations;
6 City of San Francisco | Legacy Business & Cultural District Protections
https://www.sf.gov/legacy-business-programStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 16
• models of financial assistance including grants, loans, or permissive tax
exemptions; and
• draws upon other cities’ examples including but not limited to Montreal’s
PME MTL; Toronto’s Employment & Cultural Space policies; Seattle’s
Integrated Anti Displacement Framework; San Francisco’s Legacy
Business & Cultural District Protections; New York’s various Commercial
Tenant Assistance Programs;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to evaluate commercial anti‑displacement
measures alongside policy principles that could guide a more consistent
approach across land‑use and redevelopment contexts;
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council with findings
and options, including considerations related to equity impacts, economic
diversity, administrative feasibility, and alignment with the City’s housing, growth,
and economic‑development objectives.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the following be added to the end of A:
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to engage with other
municipal jurisdictions as a part of this report back and conduct an environmental
scan of potential relief tools to mitigate development related pressures on
existing small business, arts, and nonprofit uses, with an assessment of potential
opportunities and challenges;
FURTHER THAT B be struck.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11650)
(Councillors Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
(Councillor Klassen absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED (Vote No.
11651) with Councillor Fry abstaining from the vote and Councillor Klassen absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT Council direct staff to assess and report back on how development pressures on
existing small business, arts, and non-profit uses may intersect with accelerated housing
delivery, including commitments made under the Housing Accelerator Fund and
Provincial housing legislation, with a focus on identifying unintended impacts that could
undermine neighbourhood resilience, local-serving services, or public support for growth;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back on options for more durable,
permanent approaches—beyond short‑term or pilot programs—to mitigate
development‑related pressures on existing small business, arts, and non‑profit uses,Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 17
drawing on lessons learned from the Development Potential Relief Program and related
initiatives.
AND FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to engage with other municipal jurisdictions as
a part of this report back and conduct an environmental scan of potential relief tools
to mitigate development related pressures on existing small business, arts,
and nonprofit uses, with an assessment of potential opportunities and challenges.
4. Understanding and Prioritizing Sex Worker Safety Policies and Resources
The Committee heard from 18 speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Fry
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Governed by the Vancouver Charter, and legally bound by the Canadian Charter
of Rights and Freedoms and the BC Human Rights Code, the City of Vancouver
has a clear legal responsibility to act in the public interest, protect health and
safety, and use its regulatory authority reasonably and equitably – this includes a
responsibility to otherwise vulnerable and marginalized populations;
2. Sex work laws are federal, but the conditions that make sex workers safer or
more vulnerable to violence and criminalization are overwhelmingly municipal in
nature, including: land use, by-law enforcement, licensing and permitting, policing
practices, housing availability, street design, and access to services. Vancouver
has explicitly recognized this reality in past policies and resourcing related to sex
worker health and safety;
3. In recent weeks, Council and the public have been alerted to concerns around
the importance of sex worker safety, the Sex Work Safety Framework, and
impacts on strategy and service delivery resulting from recent budgetary
reprioritization; 7
4. Many letters to Council reference recent reductions in sex worker safety staffing
levels and explicitly invoke Forsaken: The Report of the Missing Women
Commission of Inquiry (2012); 8
5. The Commission of Inquiry was established in response to at least 67 missing
women, systemic violence, and evidence of a serial predator operating in the
Downtown Eastside, targeting women who were often involved in sex work;
7 Sex workers say Vancouver losing safety supports before World Cup | Vancouver Sun
https://vancouversun.com/news/sex-workers-vancouver-losing-safety-supports-fifa-world-cup
8 Forsaken: The Report of the Missing Women Commission of Inquiry - Executive Summary
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/law-crime-and-justice/about-bc-justice-system/inquiries/forsaken-
es.pdfStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 18
6. The Commission of Inquiry advised of the need for funded positions independent
of the police force and closely connected with the culture and trust of the
community, and specifically recommended “that the City of Vancouver create and
fund two community-based liaison positions;”
7. In January 2013, Vancouver City Council approved staff recommendations to
create and fund two community-based liaison positions. While Council’s statutory
role is not hiring or staffing, Council sets policy direction and priorities enabling
hiring and resourcing, as delegated to the City’s administration;
8. Since Forsaken, the City’s work has evolved, and by 2023 responsibilities related
to Gender-Based Violence (GBV) prevention and Sex Worker Safety (SWS),
more broadly referred to as Community and Gender Safety, have been
distributed among several related but separated roles;
9. In 2026, Sex Worker Safety staffing was reduced from two dedicated positions to
one. Critics of this decision note the emotional toll and complexity of this work,
indicating it is not reasonably a one person role. The roles require subject matter
expertise and historical information that cannot be lost;
10. Sex work in Vancouver has also evolved since Forsaken, with many new
faces, including a significant number of street-based workers, and a growing
number of indoor and online work. Meanwhile, increasing housing scarcity,
economic pressure, escalated violence, service defunding, and the loss of
peer-led organizations have compounded new risks for sex workers;
11. Sex worker safety advocates, SWAN Vancouver, report calls relating to violence
and safety concerns increased by 64% between 2024 and 2025, with further
increases projected for 2026; Kingsway Community Station have highlighted a
32% increase in reported incidents of violence in the last two years (though likely
a low reported number). Advocates point to multiple community deaths this year
as another sign of increased violence;
12. There is no evidence that FIFA events cause increases in sex work or sex
trafficking, but there are reasonable and credible concerns about increased risk
of violence and harm to sex workers around FIFA events, driven by heightened
policing, displacement, venue-area controlled zones, and the erosion or loss of
safety supports and peer infrastructure. During the Olympics in Vancouver sex
workers faced heightened police harassment without arrest, but there was no
increase in reports of new, youth or trafficked sex workers.9 The paper shows
that Large scale sporting events such as the FIFA World Cup and Olympic
Games provide an invaluable opportunity to create a legacy of promoting public
health and safety through policy reforms focused on reducing harm to sex
workers, not by cutting supports;
13. While City staff do not track specific population statistics, local sex worker serving
organizations estimate there are close to at minimum 5,000 people actively
engaged in sex work in Vancouver, with a generally accepted estimate of roughly
9 BMJ | Sex work and the public health impacts of the 2010 Olympic Games
https://sti.bmj.com/content/88/4/301Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 19
2,000 street-based sex workers, primarily concentrated in the DTES and
Kingsway corridor. The remaining majority are understood to be engaged in
indoor and off-street sex work (ie. independent indoor workers, micro brothels,
online, and escort-based work); and
14. Council may be underinformed regarding the realities of contemporary sex work
and risk conditions. Part 7 of Vancouver’s Procedure By-law allows for speakers
on a Council member’s motion, providing an opportunity for Council and public to
hear directly from affected community members and experts.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council indulge the opportunity to hear from sex workers, advocates, and
service providers regarding contemporary sex work conditions, safety risks, and
the City’s role in mitigating harm.
B. THAT Council reaffirms its commitment to the findings and intent of Forsaken:
The Report of the Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, including the City’s
responsibility to maintain adequate, community-connected capacity to support
sex worker safety.
C. THAT Council directs the City Manager to ensure that dedicated Sex Worker
Safety capacity is maintained at a level consistent with Council’s past
commitments and the scope and intensity of the work, including consideration of
restoring a second dedicated position or equivalent capacity.
D. THAT Council directs staff to report back on the current structure, responsibilities,
and resourcing of Sex Worker Safety and Community & Gender Safety functions,
including an assessment of workload, service impacts, and risks associated with
current staffing levels;
FURTHER THAT Council directs staff to report back with details of the Sex Work
Safety Framework, which otherwise has not been received for review.
E. THAT Council directs staff to engage with sex worker-led and peer-based
organizations to inform any future service design, staffing models, or policy
changes affecting sex worker safety.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT in A strike “indulge the opportunity to hear from”;
FURTHER THAT in A add the phrase “affirm the importance of working with the
Province, VPD, and community organizations toward the aim of safety for sex workers in
Vancouver and direct the City Manager or delegate to continue to ensure sex worker
safety remains a distinct priority consideration across all areas of City service delivery as
appropriate, informed by ongoing engagement with” after “THAT Council”;Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 20
FURTHER THAT add “as appropriate to municipal jurisdiction” at the end of A;
FURTHER THAT in B add the phrase “recognizing that significant work and City
systems change has been advanced since the report’s publication in 2012, including:
VPD’s creation of and recent 2025 update to their Sex Work Enforcement Guidelines
that prioritizes the safety, dignity, and well-being of sex workers; the development of City
of Vancouver Sex Work Response Guidelines in 2015 to promote a balanced and
coordinated approach across City departments when responding to issues relating to
sex work; the training of enforcement and other departmental staff in the City’s Sex
Worker Guidelines to ensure their implementation and consideration in City strategy,
policy development and service delivery; the City’s development and implementation of
a substantive plan in response to the report of the National Inquiry into Missing and
Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls and the aligned DTES-focused Red Women
Rising Report; the support of sex worker safety concerns by staff and initiatives across a
number of departments, including Council approval in 2026 of $1.1M in grant funding
for gender safety organizations; and the update recently provided by staff to Council that
sex worker safety will also be addressed in the scoping of the Gender Based Violence
Prevention Strategy that is anticipated to come back to Council later in 2026” after
“Commission of Inquiry”;
FURTHER THAT in B the words “including the City’s responsibility to maintain adequate,
community-connected capacity to support sex worker safety” be struck;
FURTHER THAT C be struck;
FURTHER THAT in D the THAT clause be struck and become C;
AND FURTHER THAT E become D.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11652)
(Councillors Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
Prior to the vote, the Committee agreed to separate the vote on the components of the motion
as amended with B CARRIED (Vote No. 11653) with Councillor Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr
opposed and A, C and D CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11654) with Councillors Fry and
Orr abstaining from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council affirm the importance of working with the Province, VPD, and
community organizations toward the aim of safety for sex workers in Vancouver
and direct the City Manager or delegate to continue to ensure sex worker safety
remains a distinct priority consideration across all areas of City service delivery
as appropriate, informed by ongoing engagement with sex workers, advocates,
and service providers regarding contemporary sex work conditions, safety risks,
and the City’s role in mitigating harm as appropriate to municipal jurisdiction.
B. THAT Council reaffirms its commitment to the findings and intent of Forsaken:
The Report of the Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, recognizing that
significant work and City systems change has been advanced since the report’s
publication in 2012, including: VPD’s creation of and recent 2025 update to theirStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 21
Sex Work Enforcement Guidelines that prioritizes the safety, dignity, and
well-being of sex workers; the development of City of Vancouver Sex Work
Response Guidelines in 2015 to promote a balanced and coordinated approach
across City departments when responding to issues relating to sex work; the
training of enforcement and other departmental staff in the City’s Sex Worker
Guidelines to ensure their implementation and consideration in City strategy,
policy development and service delivery; the City’s development and
implementation of a substantive plan in response to the report of the National
Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls and the aligned
DTES-focused Red Women Rising Report; the support of sex worker safety
concerns by staff and initiatives across a number of departments, including
Council approval in 2026 of $1.1M in grant funding for gender
safety organizations; and the update recently provided by staff to Council that
sex worker safety will also be addressed in the scoping of the Gender Based
Violence Prevention Strategy that is anticipated to come back to Council later in
2026.
C. THAT Council directs staff to report back with details of the Sex Work Safety
Framework, which otherwise has not been received for review.
D. THAT Council directs staff to engage with sex worker-led and peer-based
organizations to inform any future service design, staffing models, or policy
changes affecting sex worker safety.
5. Work to Live, Live Near Work: Affordable Workforce Housing for Healthcare
Workers
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver has among the highest rents and lowest vacancy rates in Canada,
creating significant barriers to housing affordability for essential workers;
2. Rising housing costs are forcing many workers, particularly in healthcare and
other critical public services, to live far from their workplaces, contributing to long
commutes, burnout, and workforce instability;
3. The region continues to face shortages of healthcare workers, challenges that
are compounded by the high cost of living and the difficulty of securing stable
housing near major employment centres;
4. Major healthcare institutions such as St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver General
Hospital, and Mount Saint Joseph Hospital serve both the City of Vancouver and
the broader region, and depend on a stable workforce that can live within
reasonable proximity to their workplaces;Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 22
5. Other jurisdictions have implemented workforce housing models to help retain
essential workers by providing secure, purpose-built rental housing tied to key
employment sectors; and
6. The City of Vancouver has a role to play in supporting a stable healthcare
workforce through land use planning, partnerships, and policy tools that enable
the development of workforce housing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to engage with the Province of British Columbia,
regional health authorities, and other relevant partners create a feasibility study
that will seek to understand the viable options to available to deliver purpose-built
workforce housing for healthcare workers in Vancouver. Then report findings
back to Council, and that study include the following considerations:
i. Staff report back with an inventory of City-owned or controlled lands
within approximately a 5 km radius of St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver
General Hospital, and Mount Saint Joseph Hospital that may be suitable
for workforce housing development, including an assessment of site
readiness, zoning considerations, and potential delivery timelines;
ii. Staff create a report that explores delivery models, including partnerships
with non-profit housing providers, co-operatives, and experienced private
or non-profit developers with a track record of building non-market and/or
rental housing;
iii. Staff report back with available funding tools and senior government
programs that could support workforce housing development, including
capital grants, low-cost financing, and opportunities for land contributions
or long-term leases;
iv. Staff report back on the feasibility of any workforce housing developed
under this program be secured as rental housing for the long term, with
appropriate legal mechanisms to ensure its continued use for workforce
housing purposes;
v. Staff report back on the feasibility and an outline of appropriate
affordability benchmarks, including alignment with CMHC rental data, with
a portion of units secured at below-market rents to support a range of
healthcare workers, including early-career and lower-wage staff;
vi. Staff report back with opportunities to incorporate supportive amenities,
including childcare spaces where feasible, recognizing the needs of shift
workers and families in the healthcare sector;
vii. Staff report back on what opportunities exist to streamline approvals and
standardize design approaches for workforce housing, including pre-
approved building forms or typologies, to accelerate delivery while
maintaining livability and urban design quality;Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 23
viii. Staff report back on operational considerations, including eligibility
criteria, tenant selection processes, and coordination with employers and
health authorities;
ix. Staff report back on the feasibility of the inclusion of a portion of fully
furnished or move-in ready units within workforce housing developments,
particularly for new and incoming healthcare workers, and report back on
implementation options and associated costs; and
x. Staff report back to Council with recommendations, implementation
options, and timelines by Q1 2027.
B. THAT Council write a letter to the Provincial Minister of Housing and Municipal
Affairs, and Provincial Minister of Health, along with their Federal counterparts in
support of a Workforce Housing scheme for early career and low wage
healthcare workers.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT A and B be struck and the following be inserted:
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back on opportunities to further support the
delivery of affordable rental housing accessible to healthcare workers and other
moderate and low-income residents through existing City housing policy tools
and partnerships with senior governments, non-profit housing providers, and
public institutions.
B. THAT Council and the Mayor call upon the Governments of Canada and British
Columbia to significantly expand capital funding, low-cost financing, and
operating support for affordable and below-market rental housing in Vancouver,
recognizing that municipalities do not possess the fiscal capacity to
independently deliver the scale of affordable housing necessary to meet
workforce and resident needs.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11655)
(Councillor Fry abstained from the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11656).Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 24
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT under Section 2.8(b) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
5 pm in order to complete Motion 6.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to report back on opportunities to further support the
delivery of affordable rental housing accessible to healthcare workers and other
moderate and low-income residents through existing City housing policy tools
and partnerships with senior governments, non-profit housing providers, and
public institutions.
B. THAT Council and the Mayor call upon the Governments of Canada and British
Columbia to significantly expand capital funding, low-cost financing, and
operating support for affordable and below-market rental housing in Vancouver,
recognizing that municipalities do not possess the fiscal capacity to
independently deliver the scale of affordable housing necessary to meet
workforce and resident needs.
6. Preparing Community Centres for Post-Disaster Use
The Committee heard from five speakers who spoke in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Vancouver has an estimated 20% chance of experiencing a very strong
earthquake within the next 50 years (Natural Resources Canada);
2. Such an event would cause severe disruption across the city, potentially
damaging more than 6,000 private buildings, and displacing one-third or more
residents from their homes (City of Vancouver);
3. In the event of a severe earthquake, City staff and trained volunteers will direct
impacted residents to one of 25 designated disaster support hubs, where they
would receive information and be offered services (City of Vancouver);Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 25
4. Many community centres also serve as disaster support hubs. Unfortunately, a
significant number are vulnerable to earthquake damage and may not be safe to
occupy after a major quake, potentially compromising the City’s
emergency-response capacity (Vancouver Park Board);
5. Community centres are expected to play a post-disaster role that exceeds the
standard they are currently required to meet. The Vancouver Building By-law
requires these facilities to remain standing and safe for immediate occupancy
after an earthquake, but does not require the level of structural functionality or
long-term occupancy capacity that may be needed to support displaced
residents, including potential sheltering functions, over an extended and
uncertain period;
6. The Resilient Vancouver Strategy (2019) identified vulnerable civic buildings,
including community centres, as a lead risk to community response and
recovery, and urged the City to prioritize seismic upgrades and/or redevelopment
(City of Vancouver); and
7. Every building renewal, envelope upgrade, or structural and non-structural
maintenance project is an opportunity to improve the seismic preparedness of
public facilities. The City’s seismic program should receive sufficient Capital Plan
funding to ensure those opportunities are acted upon, informed by facility-specific
seismic assessments.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
THAT Council direct staff to report back:
a. With detailed information regarding the seismic upgrade requirements,
including estimated costs, of the specified Community Centres targeted
for renewal by Council; and
b. With an analysis of the feasibility and estimated costs of upgrading the
five specified community centres to a Functional Occupancy standard
when they’re up for renewal, beyond the minimum immediate occupancy
threshold currently required under the Vancouver Building By-law, before
the decisions on the Capital Plan.
amended
During discussion on the amendment to the motion, Councillor Fry rose on a point of order
pursuant to Section 8.7 (f) of the Procedure By-law and asked the amendment to be ruled out of
order as the amendment is dilatory and incorrect in light of an upcoming motion on the agenda.
The Chair ruled that the amendment was in order as there is no interdependency on future
motions and that the amendment was not frivolous or dilatory.
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the following words “affirm that the City of Vancouver’s community
centres already achieve the minimum immediate occupancy threshold currently requiredStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 26
under the Vancouver Building By-law, and given the City is partnering with UBC to
conduct seismic risk screening and prioritization for all of its facilities over the next 3
years,” be added after “THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council”;
FURTHER THAT the word “and” be struck and replaced with the words “by Q1 2028” at
the end of a;
AND FURTHER THAT b be struck.
carried
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Klassen
SECONDED by Councillor Dominato
THAT the word “already” be struck and the word “are required to” be inserted.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11657)
(Councillors Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 11658) with Councillors Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed.
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT under Section 8.13 of the Procedure By-law, the Committee reconsider the vote
on the amendment as amended.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The amendment to the amendment having carried, the amendment as amended was put and
CARRIED (Vote No. 11659) with Councillors Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed.
The amendment as amended having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
(Vote No. 11660) with Councillors Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed and Councillor Bligh abstaining
from the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council affirm that the City of Vancouver’s
community centres are required to achieve the minimum immediate occupancy threshold
currently required under the Vancouver Building By-law, and given the City is partnering
with UBC to conduct seismic risk screening and prioritization for all of its facilities over
the next 3 years, direct staff to report back with detailed information regarding the
seismic upgrade requirements, including estimated costs, of the specified Community
Centres targeted for renewal by Council, by Q1 2028.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 27
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:25 pm and reconvened at 6:18 pm.
* * * * *
7. Building the Evidence Base for Sustained Investment in Vancouver’s Arts and
Culture Sector
MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. Arts and culture are significant urban economic drivers. Vancouver ranks fifth out
of 22 census metropolitan areas on the Canadian Chamber of Commerce’s Arts
Vibrancy Index, reflecting the sector’s strong capacity to generate revenue and
attract tourism (Arts Vibrancy Index, 2026);
2. Despite these demonstrated returns, Vancouver’s arts and culture sector faces
growing financial pressure. Public and private investments continue to decline,
operating costs continue to rise, and organizations must increasingly piece
together funding from multiple sources (Canadian Chamber of Commerce, 2025);
3. This funding challenge is compounded by the lack of publicly available,
aggregated social and economic data on Vancouver’s arts and culture sector. As
a result, organizations have fewer tools to demonstrate the value of their work
when seeking grants and other funding;
4. Other cities, including Toronto, regularly document the economic contributions,
community benefits, funding needs, and gaps of their arts and culture sectors.
This kind of granular reporting gives policymakers and funders a stronger
evidence base for sustained investment (Toronto Arts Council); and
5. The City of Vancouver regularly invests in the arts and culture sector, generating
substantial related data in the process. With dedicated resources for aggregation
and analysis, this information could form the foundation for a public report that
strengthens the sector’s future funding opportunities.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT Council direct staff to report back on the
estimated resources and timeline required to create a comprehensive Arts and Culture
Impact website, modelled on the Toronto Arts Council interactive impact page, that
consolidates existing social and economic data to highlight the sector's economic
contributions, community benefits, and serves as a practical resource for arts and culture
organizations in Vancouver when pursuing grants and other funding opportunities.
referredStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 28
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Meiszner
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council refer the motion to staff for information.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11661)
(Councillors Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
(Councillors Bligh and Kirby-Yung absent for the vote)
8. Eliminating Regulatory Barriers to Housing Affordability Through Alignment with
the Provincial Building Code
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, it was
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT under Section 2.8(c) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
10 pm in order to finish hearing from speakers on Motion 8.
LOST NOT HAVING RECEIVED
THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
* * * * *
The Committee recessed on May 20, 2026, at 9:59 pm and reconvened on
May 21, 2026, at 3:13 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from 18 speakers who spoke in support, 67 speakers who spoke in
opposition and five speakers who spoke to other aspects of the motion.
During discussion on the motion, Councillor Orr rose on a point of order pursuant to Sections
8.7 (a) and (b) of the Procedure By-law and asked the motion be ruled out of order as the
motion is in conflict with the Climate Emergency Action Plan adopted by Council in 2020 with
the aim to cut carbon pollution by 50% by 2030, violates the Healthy City Strategy Goal 16 and
breaches the Code of Conduct and public trust.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 4:16 pm and reconvened at 4:22 pm.
* * * * *Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 29
The Chair ruled the motion was in order as most of the recommendations have been reviewed
and require a report back requiring decision and debate at a future date. In addition, Council has
the authority to enforce or not enforce certain by-laws, and it is within Council’s authority to
change policy at any time.
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is consistently ranked among the most unaffordable
housing markets in the world, including by the Demographia International
Housing Affordability Survey, with home prices and rents that are increasingly out
of reach for middle- and even upper-income households;
2. Both the Government of Canada and the Government of British Columbia have
identified housing affordability as a national and provincial crisis, and have called
on municipalities to remove unnecessary regulatory barriers, standardize
requirements, and accelerate the delivery of new homes;
3. The Province of British Columbia has taken steps to standardize housing-related
regulations across municipalities, including through housing legislation intended
to increase supply and reduce local variation that adds cost and delay;
4. The City of Vancouver remains the only municipality in British Columbia that
maintains a standalone building code – the Vancouver Building By-law – rather
than adopting the British Columbia Building Code;
5. This regulatory divergence requires builders, designers, and manufacturers to
adapt projects specifically for Vancouver, limiting the ability to use standardized
designs, modular construction, and prefabricated components that are otherwise
compliant across the province. Greater alignment between the building codes of
Vancouver and baseline provincial standards will reduce duplication, improve
predictability for builders and trades, and support more efficient housing delivery;
6. Even modest percentage increases in construction costs can translate into
significant increases in rents and home prices, particularly in a high-cost market
such as Vancouver, compounding affordability challenges for residents;
7. Maintaining a separate and more complex regulatory regime, absent clear and
demonstrable local necessity, risks undermining broader provincial and federal
efforts to improve housing affordability and supply. Stakeholders in business and
labour and the plumbing, heating and cooling industries have clearly identified
that limiting options for water heating will increase costs to residents and hurt
affordability;
8. In 2025, the federal consumer carbon tax and provincial carbon tax were
removed, including for natural gas residential customers, highlighting a materialStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 30
change in the economic context where Energize Vancouver was initially adopted;
and
9. It is incumbent on Vancouver City Council to ensure that municipal policies and
regulations do not unnecessarily contribute to the cost of delivering housing or
compound affordability issues already evident in the city.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to undertake a comprehensive review,
through an affordability lens, of the City’s housing and energy regulations –
including the Vancouver Building By-law, the Energize Vancouver Program, and
exploring alignment with the baseline provincial Energy Step Code, to identify
opportunities to reduce duplication, costs, and delays;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to consult with industry stakeholders, including
homebuilders, non-profit housing providers, architects, engineers, and
manufacturers, with a focus on identifying opportunities to enable greater
standardization, modular construction, and cost efficiencies;
FURTHER THAT where beneficial to life and safety measures, staff be directed
to consult with Vancouver Fire Rescue Services (VFRS) on measures not
addressed in the provincial building code but embedded in the City’s independent
Building By-law’s regulatory authorities under Section 306 of the Vancouver
Charter;
AND FURTHER THAT this review identifies all areas of divergence and classifies
them according to:
i. cost impact on housing delivery;
ii. impact on timelines and permitting complexity; and
iii. whether a clear, evidence-based local rationale exists for maintaining
the divergence.
B. THAT staff be directed to bring forward amendments at the earliest possible date
to eliminate or harmonize all provisions that add cost, delay, or complexity
without a compelling local justification, with a presumption in favour of alignment;
FURTHER THAT any recommendation to retain a divergence from the British
Columbia Building Code must include a transparent justification, including
quantified cost impacts and a clear explanation of the public benefit achieved.
C. THAT staff report back with a phased implementation plan at the earliest possible
date to achieve alignment, including timelines, transitional provisions, and any
required amendments to the Vancouver Building By-law.
D. THAT staff be directed to pause the Energize Vancouver By-law implementation
through non-enforcement as a specific means of addressing affordability in the
city in advance of the review by staff, and inform strata owned buildings of this
change as soon as possible.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 31
E. THAT Council direct staff to bring back a bylaw repeal report for By-Law No.
14578, to align with baseline provincial standards and restore the ability of
Vancouverites to choose a hot water heater replacement that best suits their
needs.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT in A the word “through” be struck and the words “that includes” after the words
“comprehensive review”;
FURTHER THAT in A the words “and energy” be struck;
FURTHER THAT in A the words “the Energize Vancouver Program,” be struck;
FURTHER THAT in A (iii) the word “local” be struck;
FURTHER THAT in B the word “evidence-based” be inserted after “bring forward”;
FURTHER THAT in the THAT clause of B the words “local” and “with a presumption in
favour of alignment” be struck;
FURTHER THAT in the FURTHER THAT clause of B the word “possible” be inserted
after “including”;
FURTHER THAT in the FURTHER THAT clause of B the words “options with examples”
be inserted after “quantified cost impacts”;
FURTHER THAT D be struck;
FURTHER THAT the words “only if there is compelling evidence to justify such a repeal
report and such evidence is provided to Council before and included in any report that
come to Council as part of this work.” be added to the end of E.
AND FURTHER THAT the following be added at the end:
THAT Council directs staff to comprehensively monitor and evaluate impacts of
all work that gets implemented through this motion and report back to Council on
a yearly basis.
LOST (Vote No. 11663)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 32
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the following be added at the end of A:
THAT Council directs staff to include in their report a comprehensive public
disclosure of all meetings, correspondence, and calendar invites between the
Mayor’s Office, City staff, and industry proponents to date, to ensure this process
meets the “open and transparent” standard required of “keepers of the public
trust” under the Code of Conduct Bylaw.
LOST (Vote No. 11664)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Bligh abstained from the vote)
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Meizner
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT under Section 2.8(b) of the Procedure By-law, Council extend the meeting past
5 pm in order to complete Motion 8.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
* * * * *
* * * * *
During discussion, Chair Zhou ceded the Chair to Vice-Chair Klassen in order to provide
comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT in A the words “with neighbouring municipalities on” be inserted after the word
“alignment”;
FURTHER THAT the words “the baseline” be struck.
LOST (Vote No 11665)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Meiszner, Montague, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
The amendments having lost, the motion was put and CARRIED (Vote No. 11666) with
Councillors Bligh, Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 33
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to undertake a comprehensive review,
through an affordability lens, of the City’s housing and energy regulations –
including the Vancouver Building By-law, the Energize Vancouver Program, and
exploring alignment with the baseline provincial Energy Step Code, to identify
opportunities to reduce duplication, costs, and delays;
FURTHER THAT staff be directed to consult with industry stakeholders, including
homebuilders, non-profit housing providers, architects, engineers, and
manufacturers, with a focus on identifying opportunities to enable greater
standardization, modular construction, and cost efficiencies;
FURTHER THAT where beneficial to life and safety measures, staff be directed
to consult with Vancouver Fire Rescue Services (VFRS) on measures not
addressed in the provincial building code but embedded in the City’s independent
Building By-law’s regulatory authorities under Section 306 of the Vancouver
Charter;
AND FURTHER THAT this review identifies all areas of divergence and classifies
them according to:
i. cost impact on housing delivery;
ii. impact on timelines and permitting complexity; and
iii. whether a clear, evidence-based local rationale exists for maintaining
the divergence.
B. THAT staff be directed to bring forward amendments at the earliest possible date
to eliminate or harmonize all provisions that add cost, delay, or complexity
without a compelling local justification, with a presumption in favour of alignment;
FURTHER THAT any recommendation to retain a divergence from the British
Columbia Building Code must include a transparent justification, including
quantified cost impacts and a clear explanation of the public benefit achieved.
C. THAT staff report back with a phased implementation plan at the earliest possible
date to achieve alignment, including timelines, transitional provisions, and any
required amendments to the Vancouver Building By-law.
D. THAT staff be directed to pause the Energize Vancouver By-law implementation
through non-enforcement as a specific means of addressing affordability in the
city in advance of the review by staff, and inform strata owned buildings of this
change as soon as possible.
E. THAT Council direct staff to bring back a bylaw repeal report for By-Law No.
14578, to align with baseline provincial standards and restore the ability of
Vancouverites to choose a hot water heater replacement that best suits their
needs.Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 34
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 5:23 pm and reconvened at 6:20 pm.
* * * * *
9. Review and Refinement of Multiplex Housing Policies Based on Early
Implementation Experience
* * * * *
Prior to the start of Motion 9, Chair Zhou ceded the Chair to Vice-Chair Klassen in order to
introduce the motion and participate in debate.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from 15 speakers who spoke in support, two speakers who spoke in
opposition and one speaker who spoke to other aspects of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Meiszner
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. In the fall of 2023, the City of Vancouver adopted multiplex housing policies and
zoning regulations intended to enable new housing forms while maintaining
neighbourhood livability, design quality, compatibility, and strong contextual fit;
2. The following year, the Province of British Columbia enacted legislation requiring
municipalities, including the City of Vancouver, to permit multiplex housing in
areas previously zoned exclusively for single-detached housing, as a means of
increasing housing supply and choice;
3. The intent of the multiplex housing program is to deliver a high-quality,
family-oriented housing form that fits within established neighbourhoods while
contributing meaningfully to housing supply;
4. Since the enactment of these policies, over 600 multiplex projects have been
submitted and more than 280 projects approved, and are either under
construction or constructed, thereby providing the City with real-world,
on-the-ground experience as to how the regulations function in practice;
5. Early implementation has generated significant interest within the development
and building community, with City staff reporting “positive excitement” about the
multiplex form as a viable and scalable housing typology;Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 35
6. The Province has been actively engaging with municipalities, including
Vancouver, to understand early outcomes and implementation challenges
associated with multiplex housing, underscoring the importance of ongoing
monitoring and refinement;
7. City staff have already initiated elements of review, are open to receiving
additional community and industry feedback, and are in a position to develop
best practices guidelines that capture lessons learned to date and support
continued improvement in design and delivery;
8. Residents in some neighbourhoods have raised concerns related to building
massing, height, lot coverage, privacy, overlook, shadowing, tree retention, loss
of green space, and impacts on views, suggesting that certain aspects of the
current regulations may produce unintended consequences;
9. Other North American cities that have introduced similar “missing-middle” or
multiplex housing reforms have undertaken iterative reviews and refinements,
including adjustments to built-form controls, design standards, and transition
rules, to better balance housing delivery with neighbourhood impacts;
10. At the same time, any adjustments to the multiplex program must be carefully
balanced against the City’s broader housing and service delivery objectives,
including accelerating permitting timelines, supporting housing supply targets
such as the 3-3-3-1 framework, and maintaining certainty for applicants and
builders; and
11. Ongoing evaluation and refinement of land-use policy is consistent with good
planning practice, fiscal prudence, and the City’s responsibility to ensure that
new housing delivers public benefit while minimizing avoidable negative
externalities.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to undertake an expedited review of the City’s multiplex
housing policies and zoning regulations, informed by early implementation
experience, to assess whether refinements are warranted to improve built form
outcomes and neighbourhood fit, while continuing to support housing delivery
objectives;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff, as part of the R1-1 review, to align
Vancouver’s Multiplex policies and regulations with the provincial Bill 25;
AND FURTHER THAT the review include consideration of how existing
regulations are performing with respect to building scale, massing, setbacks,
tree-canopy and relationship to adjacent properties, and whether adjustments or
clarifications are needed to better achieve the intended design objectives.
B. THAT staff consider whether additional clarity or refinement to existing zoning
provisions or design guidance would assist in achieving more consistent andStanding Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 36
context-sensitive outcomes, while maintaining a predictable and efficient
approvals process;
FURTHER THAT any recommended refinements continue to support the City’s
housing supply objectives, maintain certainty for applicants, and avoiding
unnecessary impacts on permitting timelines or project viability.
C. THAT Council direct staff to develop a best-practices guideline for multiplex
development informed by practices from other North American jurisdictions that
have implemented multiplex or missing-middle housing reforms and
subsequently refined their regulations to address neighbourhood impacts;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council with findings and,
where appropriate, recommended policy or zoning refinements, within a
timeframe that aligns with upcoming housing and planning work programs.
amended
* * * * *
During discussion, Vice-Chair Klassen ceded the Chair to Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung in order to
provide comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT in A the words “heritage and character retention” be inserted after the words “tree
canopy”
FURTHER THAT the following be added as D:
THAT Council direct staff to report back on the previous direction from 2023 to
explore options to update the City’s heritage/character retention policies to align
with the allowable 1.0 FSR in the missing middle housing framework (new RR-1
zoning) and enable incentives to incentivize character retention that enables
gentle density.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11667)
(Councillor Maloney opposed)
(Councillor Fry and Orr absent for the vote)
* * * * *
During discussion, Vice-Chair Klassen ceded the Chair to Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung in order to
provide comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *Standing Committee of Council on City Finance and Services
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 37
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED (Vote No.
11668) with Councillor Maloney opposed and Councillor Fry and Orr absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to undertake an expedited review of the City’s multiplex
housing policies and zoning regulations, informed by early implementation
experience, to assess whether refinements are warranted to improve built form
outcomes and neighbourhood fit, while continuing to support housing delivery
objectives;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff, as part of the R1-1 review, to align
Vancouver’s Multiplex policies and regulations with the provincial Bill 25;
AND FURTHER THAT the review include consideration of how existing
regulations are performing with respect to building scale, massing, setbacks,
tree-canopy, heritage and character retention, and relationship to adjacent
properties, and whether adjustments or clarifications are needed to better
achieve the intended design objectives.
B. THAT staff consider whether additional clarity or refinement to existing zoning
provisions or design guidance would assist in achieving more consistent and
context-sensitive outcomes, while maintaining a predictable and efficient
approvals process;
FURTHER THAT any recommended refinements continue to support the City’s
housing supply objectives, maintain certainty for applicants, and avoiding
unnecessary impacts on permitting timelines or project viability.
C. THAT Council direct staff to develop a best-practices guideline for multiplex
development informed by practices from other North American jurisdictions that
have implemented multiplex or missing-middle housing reforms and
subsequently refined their regulations to address neighbourhood impacts;
FURTHER THAT Council direct staff to report back to Council with findings and,
where appropriate, recommended policy or zoning refinements, within a
timeframe that aligns with upcoming housing and planning work programs.
D. THAT Council direct staff to report back on the previous direction from 2023 to
explore options to update the City’s heritage/character retention policies to align
with the allowable 1.0 FSR in the missing middle housing framework (new RR-1
zoning) and enable incentives to incentivize character retention that enables
gentle density.
The Committee adjourned at 7:52 pm.
* * * * *COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
CITY FINANCE AND SERVICES
MAY 20 AND 21, 2026
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on May 21, 2026, at 7:53 pm, in the
Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on City Finance and
Services meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the Committee.
PRESENT: Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Rebecca Bligh
Councillor Lisa Dominato
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sean Orr
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Bonnie Kennett, Meeting Coordinator
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on City Finance and Services
May 20 and 21, 2026
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on City Finance and Services. Its items of business included:
Presentations:
1. VanStat: Facilities Condition and Maintenance
Reports:
1. Tree Inspection Policy
2. Contract Award for Consultant Services for Cambie Bridge Seismic Upgrade and
Rehabilitation Program
3. Amendments to Impounding and Vehicles for Hire By-laws – Towing RatesCouncil Meeting
Minutes, May 20 and 21, 2026 2
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Carrying on Joe Fortes’ Legacy: Universal Access to Basic Swimming Lessons and
Expansion of Aquatic Infrastructure as Core Public Safety Policy
2. Supporting Italian Day on Commercial Drive in 2026
3. Managing and Mitigating Development Pressure on Existing Small Business, Arts, and
Non-Profit Uses
4. Understanding and Prioritizing Sex Worker Safety Policies and Resources
5. Work to Live, Live Near Work: Affordable Workforce Housing for Healthcare Workers
6. Preparing Community Centres for Post-Disaster Use
7. Building the Evidence Base for Sustained Investment in Vancouver’s Arts and Culture
Sector
8. Eliminating Regulatory Barriers to Housing Affordability Through Alignment with the
Provincial Building Code
9. Review and Refinement of Multiplex Housing Policies Based on Early Implementation
Experience
Presentation 1, Reports 1 to 3 and Council Members’ Motions 1 to 9.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on City
Finance and Services at its meeting of May 20 and 21, 2026, as contained in
Presentation 1, Reports 1 to 3 and Council Members’ Motions 1 to 9, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A IN MOTION 2
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
(Councillors Fry and Orr absent for the vote)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 7:54 pm.
* * * * *