REPORT TO COUNCIL
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL
ON POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 3, 2026
A meeting of the Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities was held on
Wednesday, June 3, 2026, at 9:32 am, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall. This
Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as authorized by the Part 14
of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Peter Meiszner*, Chair (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – 12 pm onwards)
Councillor Lisa Dominato, Vice-Chair
Mayor Ken Sim*
Councillor Rebecca Bligh* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– all day)
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung (Leave of Absence – Civic
Business – 4 pm onwards)
Councillor Mike Klassen* (Leave of Absence – Civic Business –
12 pm onwards)
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Sonia Lotay, Meeting Coordinator
* Denotes absence for a portion of the meeting.
WELCOME
The Chair acknowledged we are on the unceded homelands of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh People. We thank them for having cared for this land and look forward to working
with them in partnership as we continue to build this great city together.
The Chair also recognized the immense contributions of the City of Vancouver’s team members
who work hard every day to help make our city an incredible place to live, work, and play.
PROCLAMATION – World Refugee DayStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 2
The Chair, alongside members of Council, proclaimed June 20, 2026, as World Refugee Day
and welcomed representatives from the Multi-Agency Partnership, Katya Avalos and Sara
López, to accept the proclamation and say a few words.
MATTERS ADOPTED ON CONSENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee adopt Reports 1, 4, and 5 on consent.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A to D in REPORT 1
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
REPORTS
1. Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Program Allocation 2026
May 5, 2026
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve the matching grant allocation of $610,051 to 17
Downtown Eastside (DTES) non-profit organizations to advance the social,
economic and environmental objectives of the DTES Plan, as detailed in
Appendix A of the Report dated May 5, 2026, entitled “Downtown Eastside
(DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Program Allocation 2026.” Source of funds
from the previously approved multi-year capital project budget, $513,051 in 2023
– 26 DTES Plan Matching Grants and $97,000 in the 2023-26 DTES Plan
Strategic Project Grants.
B. THAT, pursuant to section 206(1)(j) of the Vancouver Charter, Council deems any
organization listed in Appendix A of the Report dated May 5, 2026, entitled
“Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Program Allocation
2026” that is not otherwise a registered charity with Canada Revenue Agency to
be contributing to the culture of beautification, health, or welfare of Vancouver.
C. THAT the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability (GM of
PDS or their designate) be authorized to negotiate and execute agreements to
disburse the grants described in the Report dated May 5, 2026, entitled
“Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Program Allocation
2026” on the terms and conditions generally set out in the same report and on
such other terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the GM of PDS and the
Director of Legal Services.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 3
D. THAT no legal rights or obligations will be created by the approval of A to D
above unless and until the applicable grant agreement or letter of agreement is
approved by the City in accordance with C above and executed and delivered by
both the grant recipient and General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and
Sustainability (or their designate).
ADOPTED ON CONSENT AND A TO D
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11721)
2. City of Vancouver UNDRIP Task Force Annual Report
May 5, 2026
Councillor Thomas of the Tsleil-Waututh Nation and Councillor Guerin of the Musqueam Nation
opened proceedings with a welcome song. Councillor Kirby-Yung acknowledged the passing of
respected Musqueam leader and Elder qiyəplenəxʷ Howard Grant on March 29, 2026, and
subsequently provided opening remarks.
The Tsleil-Waututh Nation representative, Councillor Thomas, the Musqueam Indian Band
representative, Councillor Guerin and the UNDRIP Task Force Co-Chair, Councillor Kirby-Yung,
along with staff from the City Manager’s Office, provided a presentation. MMIWG2S Advisory
Committee members provided comments.
The Committee received the following for information:
• The UNDRIP Action Plan 2026 Annual Report attached as Appendix A of the Report
dated May 5, 2026, entitled “City of Vancouver UNDRIP Task Force Annual Report”;
• The 2026 Annual Reconciliation Report attached as Appendix B of the Report dated May
5, 2026, entitled “City of Vancouver UNDRIP Task Force Annual Report”; and
• An update on the progress of the MMIWG2S+ Response attached as Appendix C of the
Report dated May 5, 2026, entitled “City of Vancouver UNDRIP Task Force Annual
Report.”
* * * * *
At this point in the proceedings, Vice-Chair Dominato assumed the Chair in the absence of
Chair Meiszner, who was on leave of absence.
* * * * *
3. Report Back – Giving Effect to Cooling Rights in a Climate Emergency Through
the Licence By-law
May 5, 2026
Staff from Development, Buildings and Licensing provided a presentation and, along with staff
from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability, responded to questions.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 4
The Committee heard from eight speakers in support of the report recommendations.
* * * * *
During discussion, Vice-Chair Dominato ceded the Chair to Deputy Mayor Councillor Kirby-Yung
to provide comments and resumed the Chair once finished.
* * * * *
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
A. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Licence By-law as
described in the Report dated May 5, 2026, entitled “Report Back – Giving Effect
to Cooling Rights in a Climate Emergency Through the Licence By-law” and as
generally set out in Appendix A of the same report;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment by Council a by-law to amend the Licence By-law, generally as set out
in Appendix A of the above-noted report, to be effective immediately upon
enactment.
B. THAT Council approve, in principle, amendments to the Ticket Offences By-law
as generally set out in Appendix B of the Report dated May 5, 2026, entitled
“Report Back – Giving Effect to Cooling Rights in a Climate Emergency Through
the Licence By-law” to be effective immediately upon enactment;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward for
enactment by Council a by-law to amend the Ticket Offences By-law, generally
as set out in Appendix B of the above-noted report, to be effective immediately
upon enactment.
C. THAT Council request that the Mayor send a letter to the Minister of Housing and
Municipal Affairs:
i. advocating for provincial regulations under the Residential Tenancy Act
and Strata Property Act to prohibit landlords and strata corporations from
restricting or preventing residents from using portable cooling devices, as
outlined in the report; and
ii. requesting an update on the Province’s progress toward enabling
amendments to the Vancouver Charter that would allow the City to
establish maximum indoor temperature standards, as approved by
Council on June 11, 2024.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11706)
(Councillors Klassen, Meiszner and Mayor Sim absent for the vote)Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 5
4. Contract Award for Contractor Services for LED Street Lights Rollout - Phase #2
May 4, 2026
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement for the replacement of
approximately 14,000 existing streetlight fixtures with energy-efficient LED fixtures as
part of a Citywide infrastructure upgrade with Crown Contracting Limited for an
estimated contract value of $3,150,000.00, plus applicable taxes, over the initial 2-year
term of the contract (the “Agreement”). The approximate value of the full contract term
(over the initial 2-year term and the 1-year possible unilateral extension terms) is
$4,725,000.00 which will be funded from the Approved Multiyear Capital Budget for the
Citywide Street Lighting LED Replacement Project;
FURTHER THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City's
Director of Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of
Engineering Services.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11723)
5. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Garbage and Green Carts
May 15, 2026
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Klassen
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
THAT Council authorize City staff to negotiate an agreement with Toter, LLC (“Toter”) for
supply and delivery of garbage and green carts for $2,061,183 plus applicable taxes
over an initial three-year term (the “Agreement”), with an option to extend the Agreement
for up to two additional three-year terms, for a total value of $6,183,549 plus applicable
taxes over the potential nine-year term. Funding will be provided from the annual
operating budget for the Solid Waste Utility, with expenditures in subsequent years to be
made on an if- and when-needed basis;
FURTHER THAT Council delegate its authority to execute the Agreement to the City of
Legal Services, Chief Procurement Officer, and General Manager of Engineering
Services.
ADOPTED ON CONSENT (Vote No. 11725)Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 6
COUNCIL MEMBERS’ MOTIONS
1. Creating a Low Income Transit Pass to Increase Efficiency, Ridership, and Equity
* * * * *
During the hearing of speakers, the Committee recessed at 11:56 am and reconvened at
1:01 pm.
* * * * *
The Committee heard from 20 speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. TransLinkBC has the 3rd highest ridership in Canada, outside of Toronto’s TTC
and Montreal’s STM;
2. Affordable transportation is linked to better social well-being and health
outcomes;
3. TransLinkBC has increased fares by 4% in 2025 and will raise fares by 5% this
year;
4. TransLink does have a reduced fare program, however, only those 65 and older,
as well as those with disabilities only qualify;
5. TransLink staff recommended in 2024 that a low-income pass be explored under
the guise of equity, and the Mayor and Council approved it;
6. Vancouver is the only major Canadian city without a low-income transit pass for
all ages;
7. By expanding economic equity across transit, efficiency among routes increases;
and
8. Currently, cities like Halifax, Toronto, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Edmonton, and Calgary
all have low-income transit passes for all ages.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVEDStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 7
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to seek to work with TransLink to
identify cost and cost structures of a $25 a month low-income transit pass for
those earning less than $40,000 a year.
B. THAT Council seek to enter in conversation with TransLink to see if there is
interest in a cost sharing scheme for this program.
C. THAT Council ask the Mayor to write a letter in support to the province of British
Columbia in support of this low-income transit pass scheme.
D. THAT Council seek to work with TransLink in tandem to lobby the provincial
government to provide the necessary funding for a low income transit pass.
E. THAT Council ask the Mayors Council to recommend TransLink perform a
feasibility study for a low-income transit pass, beyond what is already available to
see if the $60-70 million estimate has increased since last year.
F. THAT Council ask the province to outline what sort of funding at the City and
provincial level would be necessary to create a “fair fare” low-income transit pass
program for Skytrain and Buses.
G. THAT Council direct staff to see if any grant exists or to create a grant that would
assist TransLink in subsidizing a low-income transit pass for Vancouver
residents.
amended
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT A be amended as follows:
• The phrase “seek to work with TransLink to identify cost and cost structures” be
deleted and replaced with “advocate to the Mayor’s Council and the Province of
British Columbia for the implementation”;
FURTHER THAT B, F and G be deleted;
AND FURTHER THAT C be amended as follows:
• The word “a” be deleted and replaced with the word “another”;
• The phrase “in support of” be deleted and replaced with the phrase “advocating
for”;
• The following be added at the end:
o FURTHER THAT the letter request the province to outline what sort of
funding would be available to create a “fair fare” low-income transit pass
program for Skytrain and Buses.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 8
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11707)
(Councillors Klassen and Meiszner absent for the vote)
The amendment having carried, the motion as amended was put and CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11708) with Councillors Klassen and Meiszner absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
Note: The lettering of the motion has changed as a result of the approved motion, as amended.
A. THAT Vancouver City Council direct staff to advocate to the Mayor’s Council and
the Province of British Columbia for the implementation of a $25 a month low-
income transit pass for those earning less than $40,000 a year.
B. THAT Council ask the Mayor to write another letter in support to the province of
British Columbia advocating for this low-income transit pass scheme, noted in A
above;
FURTHER THAT the letter request the province to outline what sort of funding
would be available to create a “fair fare” low-income transit pass program for
Skytrain and Buses.
C. THAT Council seek to work with TransLink in tandem to lobby the provincial
government to provide the necessary funding for a low income transit pass.
D. THAT Council ask the Mayor’s Council to recommend TransLink perform a
feasibility study for a low-income transit pass, beyond what is already available to
see if the $60-70 million estimate has increased since last year.
2. Pride in Vancouver: Strengthening and Celebrating the Vancouver Pride Festival
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Bligh
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Vancouver Pride Society is a long-standing and important partner of the City,
particularly through the production of the Pride Festival, Parade, and other
related events and community programming that provides a sense of community,
gathering, and celebration of the 2SLGBTQIA+ community in Vancouver;
2. The City of Vancouver has consistently supported the Vancouver Pride Society
and the production of various pride events, particularly through the City’s Special
Event Framework, annual cultural project grants, public safety and operationalStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 9
coordination, as well as the February 2025 Motion “Bringing Back The Block
Party: Supporting Davie Village and Vancouver Pride Celebrations,” and the
December 2025 Motion “Cementing the City of Vancouver’s Support for Pride
Weekend”;
3. In a time when many residents are facing increasing challenges with affordability
and a high cost of living, supporting events such as those produced by the
Vancouver Pride Society can encourage greater community connection and
vibrancy;
4. Many 2SLGBTQIA+ individuals are facing a greater level of hate and
discrimination in recent years, with police-reported hate crimes related to sexual
orientation increasing considerably since 20181;
5. In 2025, the Pride Parade alone was attended by over 100,000 attendees,2 and
festivities included the return of the Davie Village Pride Festival for the first time
since 2019, supported by the aforementioned February 2025 Motion3;
6. The Vancouver Pride Society parade and festival deliver significant economic,
tourism, and cultural benefits to the City of Vancouver, with an estimated total
economic impact of nearly $30 million in 2025,4 with the federal government
describing Vancouver Pride as a “marquee celebration"5 that attracts hundreds of
thousands of attendees and additional visitors from across Canada and
internationally;
7. The April 2026 Motion, titled “Creating a City of Vancouver Festival Support
Fund,” does seek to address several issues with regard to funding shortfalls for
vibrant events in Vancouver, including Vancouver Pride, a report back with
recommendations on this support fund is not scheduled until Q3 2026,6 with
tangible supports unlikely to appear in advance of the 2026 Pride Festival;
8. The Vancouver Pride Society has identified significant funding shortfalls and a
reduction in sponsorships,7 both of which put the production of 2026 Pride
Programming at significant risk; and
1 https://www.fondationemergence.org/en/nouvelles/setbacks-for-lgbtq-people-around-the-world
2 https://www.vancouverpride.ca/2025
3 https://council.vancouver.ca/20250226/documents/pspcmotion2.pdf
4 Economic Impact Assessment calculated by Destination Vancouver, with data and information provided
by the event organizers.
5 https://www.canada.ca/en/pacific-economic-development/news/2022/07/government-of-canada-shows-
its-pride-by-supporting-2slgbtqai-events-in-vancouver.html
6 See final motion as approved,
https://council.vancouver.ca/20260401/documents/pspc20260401_minutes.pdf p.9
7 https://globalnews.ca/news/11743547/canada-pride-festivals-federal-funding/Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 10
9. Council has supported several events in 2026 with one-time grants to improve
community wellbeing and preserve a vibrant city, including a one-time grant of up
to $30,000 for Car Free Days,8 a one-time grant of up to $45,000 for the Vaisakhi
Parade and Festival,9 a one-time grant of up to $60,000 for the 2026 Lunar New
Year Gala,10 a one-time grant of up to $60,000 to the Italian Day Festival
Society,11 and a one-time grant of up to $300,000 to the Downtown Vancouver
Business Improvement Association for Granville Street Activation during the
2026 FIFA World Cup12.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council approve a one-time extraordinary grant of up to $75,000 from the
City’s 2026 Operating Budget, or another funding source deemed appropriate by
the General Manager of Finance, to the Vancouver Pride Society to assist with
costs associated with organizing and delivering Vancouver Pride 2026;
FURTHER THAT this grant support is extraordinary and one-time in nature
intended solely to address the unique circumstances arising this year.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute any grant agreement for the
associated amount that includes terms and conditions that are consistent with the
intentions of the above-noted motion, that satisfy the City’s Director of Legal
Services, and that disburse the grant described in the same motion to the City
Manager (or their designate).
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of the recommendations herein unless and until all legal documentation has been
executed and delivered by the respective parties.
carried
AMENDMENT MOVED by Councillor Bligh
THAT the following be added at the end of A:
FURTHER THAT Council approve a one-time grant of $60,000 to Latincouver
Cultural & Business Society to support increased safety and security costs and
sponsorship revenue challenges associated with delivering Carnaval del Sol and
related cultural programming in 2026;
8https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/car-free-days-funding-vancouver-9.7125152
9 https://council.vancouver.ca/20260401/documents/pspc_motion1.pdf
10 https://council.vancouver.ca/20260204/documents/cfscmotion6.pdf
11 https://council.vancouver.ca/20260520/documents/cfscmotion2.pdf
12 https://council.vancouver.ca/20260311/documents/cfsc_motion1.pdfStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 11
AND FURTHER THAT the grant be funded from the City’s available reserves,
with staff authorized to make the necessary financial adjustments to facilitate this
one-time allocation.
withdrawn
At 1:58 pm, prior to the amendment receiving a seconder, the Chair called a recess to consult
with staff to determine whether the amendment was in order. Following the recess, the Chair
advised that the amendment was not germane to the motion and requested that the mover
withdraw the amendment. The mover subsequently withdrew the amendment.
* * * * *
The amendment having been withdrawn, the motion was put and CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
AND A BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY (Vote No. 11709), with Councillors Klassen and
Meiszner absent for the vote.
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
A. THAT Council approve a one-time extraordinary grant of up to $75,000 from the
City’s 2026 Operating Budget, or another funding source deemed appropriate by
the General Manager of Finance, to the Vancouver Pride Society to assist with
costs associated with organizing and delivering Vancouver Pride 2026;
FURTHER THAT this grant support is extraordinary and one-time in nature
intended solely to address the unique circumstances arising this year.
B. THAT Council delegate its authority to execute any grant agreement for the
associated amount, referenced in A above, that includes terms and conditions
that are consistent with the intentions of the Motion entitled “Pride in Vancouver:
Strenthening and Celebrating the Vancouver Pride Festival,” that satisfy the
City’s Director of Legal Services, and that disburse the grant described in the
same motion to the City Manager (or their designate).
C. THAT no legal rights or obligations will arise or be created by Council’s adoption
of the A an B above, unless and until all legal documentation has been executed
and delivered by the respective parties.
3. Protecting Tenants at 75 East 8th Avenue Through the Tenant Relocation and
Protection Policy Review
The Committee heard from five speakers in support, and one speaker who spoke to other
aspects of the motion.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 12
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Fry
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is currently reviewing the Tenant Relocation and
Protection Policy (TRPP) to strengthen tenant protections and address
displacement pressures;
2. The current TRPP framework may not provide full protections, including right of
first refusal provisions, when existing rental housing is replaced with hotel or
other non-permanent accommodation uses;
3. The loss of existing rental housing in Mount Pleasant will contribute to
displacement of long-term residents from their neighbourhood and community
supports; and
4. The City has already met or exceeded existing hotel room growth targets while
continuing to face an ongoing rental housing affordability and displacement crisis.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff, as part of the current Tenant Relocation and
Protection Policy review, to report back with recommendations to ensure tenant
protections, including right of first refusal provisions, apply where existing rental
housing is replaced with hotel or other non-permanent accommodation uses.
B. THAT Council direct staff to report back on options to close gaps in tenant
protections that may allow redevelopment projects to circumvent the intent of the
City’s anti-displacement policies.
referred
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council refer the Motion entitled “Protecting Tenants at 75 East 8th Avenue
Through the Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy Review to staff for information as
part of their ongoing review.
withdrawn
At 2:31 pm, Councillor Fry rose on a point of order under section 8.7(f) of the Procedure By-law,
stating that the referral above was dilatory and frivolous as the operative direction of the motion
was for referral to staff for review as part of the scheduled TRPP review and report back, and
should therefore be ruled out of order.Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 13
Following a brief recess, and after consulting with staff, the Chair ruled the referral motion in
order, noting that it referred the matter to staff as part of an existing review, whereas the motion
provided prescriptive direction.
At this point in the proceedings, it was
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT, under Section 8.4 of the Procedure By-law, the referral motion be withdrawn.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
REFERRAL MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the title of the Motion originally entitled “Protecting Tenants at 75 East 8th Avenue
Through the Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy Review”, be struck and substituted
with the following “Protecting Tenants Through the Tenant Relocation and Protection
Policy Review”;
FURTHER THAT Council refer the Motion, to staff for information as part of their
ongoing review.
CARRIED (Vote No. 11710)
(Councillors Fry, Maloney and Orr opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
FINAL MOTION AS APPROVED
THAT the title of the Motion originally entitled “Protecting Tenants at 75 East 8th Avenue
Through the Tenant Relocation and Protection Policy Review”, be struck and substituted
with the following “Protecting Tenants Through the Tenant Relocation and Protection
Policy Review”;
FURTHER THAT Council refer the Motion, to staff for information as part of their
ongoing review.
* * * * *
Prior to the start of Motion 4, Vice-Chair Dominato ceded the Chair to Deputy Mayor Kirby-Yung
to introduce the motion and participate in discussion.
* * * * *
4. Advancing Means Prevention Fencing on the Granville Street BridgeStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 14
The Committee heard from four speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Dominato
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The Granville Street Bridge is a known location for suicide attempts and deaths,
and each loss of life has a profound impact on families, first responders, and the
broader community;
2. Means prevention fencing at known high-risk locations is widely recognized as
one of the most effective suicide prevention interventions, and evidence from
bridge barrier installations in other jurisdictions has demonstrated significant
reductions in suicide deaths;
3. The installation of suicide prevention barriers on the Burrard Bridge has resulted
in no known suicide deaths from that bridge since barriers were installed in 2017;
4. In July 2024, Vancouver City Council approved $300,000 in funding to undertake
conceptual design and costing work for means prevention fencing on the
Granville Street Bridge in order to better define the scope and cost of the project;
5. The City has not yet confirmed the total cost of installing means prevention
fencing, and previous estimates referenced in public discussions remain
preliminary and unverified; and
6. In the 2027–2030 Capital Plan update, staff recommended that no City funding
be allocated for construction at this time, citing broader capital funding
constraints, while continuing work to complete the conceptual design and support
advocacy to senior levels of government.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council reaffirm its commitment to installing means prevention
infrastructure on the Granville Street Bridge as a critical public safety and suicide
prevention measure.
B. THAT Council direct staff to prioritize inclusion of means prevention infrastructure
on the Granville Street Bridge within the draft 2027–2030 Capital Plan, with
anticipated city and senior government partner contributions.
C. THAT Council direct staff to expedite completion of the conceptual design and
costing work currently underway and report back to Council as soon as possible
with:
a. A confirmed cost estimate for the installation of means prevention
infrastructure;Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 15
b. Recommended design options including short term, interim measures to
address bridge areas having the highest need;
c. A proposed implementation schedule; and
d. Cost sharing scenarios.
D. THAT Council direct staff to engage with the Government of British Columbia and
the Government of Canada to seek cost-sharing contributions to support the
design and construction of means prevention infrastructure on the Granville
Street Bridge.
E. THAT the Mayor write to the Premier of British Columbia and the Prime Minister
of Canada requesting their governments’ partnership in funding this evidence-
based suicide prevention initiative to help prevent further loss of life.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11711)
* * * * *
Following the conclusion of the item, Vice-Chair Dominato resumed the Chair.
* * * * *
The Committee recessed at 3:13 pm and reconvened at 3:17 pm.
* * * * *
5. More than Zero: Integrity and Accountability for Staff and Department Changes
The Committee heard from seven speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Orr
SECONDED by Councillor Maloney
THAT the Committee recommend to Council
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver's 2026 budget has significantly impacted operations at the
City of Vancouver, including significant impacts on City staff;
2. Since at least January 1, 2024, the City has undertaken staffing and operational
changes in anticipation of, or in response to, 2026 budget pressures. These
actions may include layoffs, position eliminations, vacancy freezes,
reclassifications, hours reductions, and the contracting out of previously in-house
functions;
3. Many of these changes have occurred without explicit Council direction or public
disclosure, and residents, workers, and elected officials lack a clear and
comprehensive account of what has been cut, reduced, or restructured; andStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 16
4. Transparency about the scope and impact of these changes is necessary for
Council to exercise its oversight responsibilities, and for the public to assess the
impact of budget decisions in a democracy.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct the City Manager to produce a public, non-confidential
written report to Council within 10 days of adoption of this motion,
comprehensively disclosing all staffing and operational changes made across all
City departments and functions between January 1, 2024, and the date of this
motion that relate to meeting budget targets, including but not limited to:
1. Positions eliminated or delisted;
2. Layoffs and terminations;
3. Vacancy freezes (positions left unfilled by policy or direction);
4. Reductions to hours or employment status;
5. Reclassifications resulting in reduced compensation or scope;
6. Functions, services, or work contracted out to external providers; and
7. Any other measures that reduced the City's workforce or service delivery
capacity.
B. THAT the report identify, for each change: the department affected, the nature of
the change, the number of positions or workers affected, the date the change
was implemented or directed, and the estimated annual budget impact.
C. THAT the report disclose all City departments, teams, projects, and tasks ended,
defunded, or paused during this period, and the estimated annual budget impact.
D. THAT the report disclose all new costs incurred, including subcontracts and
automation, to complete work previously done by staff.
E. THAT no information in this report be withheld on the basis of budgetary
confidentiality, and that the report be made available to the public upon tabling.
LOST (Vote No. 11712) (reconsidered below)
(Councillors Dominato, Fry, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Montague, Meiszner, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
* * * * *
At this point in the proceedings, it was
RECONSIDERATION MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT Council reconsider the vote on the motion entitled “More than Zero: Integrity and
Accountability for Staff and Department Changes.”
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 17
The reconsideration having carried, it was
MOVED by Councillor Zhou
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
A. THAT Council direct the City Manager to produce a public, non-confidential
written report to Council within 10 days of adoption of this motion,
comprehensively disclosing all staffing and operational changes made across all
City departments and functions between January 1, 2024, and the date of this
motion that relate to meeting budget targets, including but not limited to:
1. Positions eliminated or delisted;
2. Layoffs and terminations;
3. Vacancy freezes (positions left unfilled by policy or direction);
4. Reductions to hours or employment status;
5. Reclassifications resulting in reduced compensation or scope;
6. Functions, services, or work contracted out to external providers; and
7. Any other measures that reduced the City's workforce or service delivery
capacity.
B. THAT the report identify, for each change: the department affected, the nature of
the change, the number of positions or workers affected, the date the change
was implemented or directed, and the estimated annual budget impact.
C. THAT the report disclose all City departments, teams, projects, and tasks ended,
defunded, or paused during this period, and the estimated annual budget impact.
D. THAT the report disclose all new costs incurred, including subcontracts and
automation, to complete work previously done by staff.
E. THAT no information in this report be withheld on the basis of budgetary
confidentiality, and that the report be made available to the public upon tabling.
LOST (Vote No. 11713)
(Councillors Dominato, Kirby-Yung, Klassen, Montague, Meiszner, Zhou and Mayor Sim
opposed)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)
* * * * *
6. Recognizing National Accessibility Week as an Official City of Vancouver
Observance
The Committee heard from three speakers in support of the motion.
MOVED by Councillor Maloney
SECONDED by Councillor Orr
THAT the Committee recommend to CouncilStanding Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 18
WHEREAS
1. The City of Vancouver is committed to advancing equity, accessibility, inclusion,
and belonging for all residents;
2. The City’s Accessibility Strategy and Action Plan aims to advance accessibility,
reduce barriers, and support the full participation of persons with disabilities in
civic life, public spaces, services, employment, and community engagement;
3. Raising public awareness is a key part of building a more accessible and
inclusive society where everyone can participate fully;
4. National Accessibility Week, observed across Canada from May 31 to June 6,
2026, invites all of us, including governments, businesses, organizations, and
individuals, to take action to advance a barrier-free country;
5. National Accessibility Week contributes to identifying, removing, and preventing
structural, physical, and attitudinal barriers to the participation of persons with
disabilities in civic life. It also celebrates the leadership, achievements, and
contributions of persons with disabilities in our communities, workplaces, and
public life;
6. On May 14, 2026, the Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee, whose
mandate is to advise Council and staff on advancing access and inclusion for
persons with disabilities in City services and civic life, passed a motion
recommending that Vancouver City Council formally recognize National
Accessibility Week as one of the City of Vancouver’s official observances; and
7. Recognizing National Accessibility Week as an Official City of Vancouver
observance would support the objectives of the City's Accessibility Strategy and
Action Plan and encourage public awareness and community participation during
National Accessibility week.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
A. THAT Council direct staff to recognize National Accessibility Week as an Official
Celebration and Observance of the City of Vancouver starting in 2026, in
alignment with the City's Accessibility Strategy and Action Plan and the motion
passed by the Persons with Disabilities Advisory Committee, to encourage public
awareness and community efforts toward a more accessible and inclusive
Vancouver for all residents.
B. THAT the City of Vancouver will acknowledge this day with a proclamation,
illumination, and internal and external communications as is customary of the
City’s official observances.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11714)
(Councillor Bligh absent for the vote)Standing Committee of Council on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 19
The Committee adjourned at 3:58 pm.
* * * * *COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON
POLICY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
JUNE 3, 2026
A meeting of the Council of the City of Vancouver was held on Wednesday, June 3, 2026, at
4:02 pm, in the Council Chamber, Third Floor, City Hall, following the Standing Committee on
Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting, to consider the recommendations and actions of the
Committee. This Council meeting was convened in person and via electronic means as
authorized by the Part 14 of the Procedure By-law.
PRESENT: Councillor Lisa Dominato, Acting Mayor
Mayor Ken Sim
Councillor Pete Fry
Councillor Sarah Kirby-Yung
Councillor Mike Klassen
Councillor Lucy Maloney
Councillor Peter Meiszner
Councillor Brian Montague
Councillor Sean Orr
Councillor Lenny Zhou
ABSENT: Councillor Rebecca Bligh (Leave of Absence – Civic Business
– all day)
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE: Donny van Dyk, City Manager
Sandra Singh, Deputy City Manager
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE: Lesley Matthews, Acting Deputy City Clerk
Sonia Lotay, Meeting Coordinator
* * * * *
Acting Mayor Dominato remained in the Chair, as Mayor Sim was participating virtually.
* * * * *
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities
Wednesday, June 3, 2026
Council considered the report containing the recommendations and actions taken by the
Standing Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities. Its items of business included:Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 2
Reports:
1. Downtown Eastside (DTES) Plan Implementation Grant Program Allocation 2026
2. City of Vancouver UNDRIP Task Force Annual Report
3. Report Back – Giving Effect to Cooling Rights in a Climate Emergency Through the
Licence By-law
4. Contract Award for Contractor Services for LED Street Lights Rollout – Phase #2
5. Contract Award for Supply and Delivery of Garbage and Green Carts
Council Members’ Motions:
1. Creating a Low Income Transit Pass to Increase Efficiency, Ridership, and Equity
2. Pride in Vancouver: Strengthening and Celebrating the Vancouver Pride Festival
3. Protecting Tenants at 75 East 8th Avenue Through the Tenant Relocation and Protection
Policy Review
4. Advancing Means Prevention Fencing on the Granville Street Bridge
5. More than Zero: Integrity and Accountability for Staff and Department Changes
6. Recognizing National Accessibility Week as an Official City of Vancouver Observance
Reports 1 to 5 and Council Members’ Motions 1 to 6
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT the recommendations and actions taken by the Standing Committee on Policy and
Strategic Priorities at its meeting of June 3, 2026, as contained in Reports 1 to 5, and
Council Members’ Motions 1 to 6, be approved.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND A to D in REPORT 1 AND A in MOTION 2
BY THE REQUIRED MAJORITY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
1. Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue
At the Public Hearing on June 2, 2026, Council heard the staff presentation, asked questions of
staff and the applicant, heard from the public and closed the speakers list and receipt of public
comments for this item. Council subsequently referred applicant and staff closing comments,
further questions to staff, debate and decision to the Council meeting following the Standing
Committee on Policy and Strategic Priorities meeting on June 3, 2026, as Unfinished Business.
Council also had before it a yellow memorandum from the General Manager of Planning, Urban
Design and Sustainability dated May 29, 2026, entitled “Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1
Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue – Council Considerations when Amending an ODP.”
At the beginning of the item Councillors Maloney and Mayor Sim advised they had reviewed the
proceedings of the meeting they missed and would therefore be participating in debate and
decision on the item.Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 3
Councill Fry advised he had not reviewed the proceedings he missed and would therefore not
be participating in debate and decision.
Applicant Closing Comments
None.
Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability provided closing comments.
Council Questions Following Staff Closing Comments
Staff from Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability responded to additional questions.
Council Decision
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
A. THAT the application by Amacon Construction Ltd., on behalf of 1745 W 8th
Property Ltd., the registered owner of the lands located at 1745 West 8th Avenue
[PID 007-477-104; Lot A Block 308 District Lot 526 Plan 16501], to amend the
Generalized Land Use designation of the lands in the Vancouver Official
Development Plan from Mixed-Use High-Rise 1 to Mixed-Use High-Rise 2,
generally as presented in the Referral Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled
“Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue,” be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft Vancouver Official Development Plan amendment by-
law, prepared for Public Hearing in accordance with Appendix A of the above-
noted report, be approved in principle.
B. THAT the application to rezone the lands from C-3A (Commercial) District to CD-
1 (Comprehensive Development) District, to increase the maximum floor space
ratio (FSR) from 3.00 to 8.56 and increase the maximum building height from 9.2
m (30 ft.) to 102 m (335 ft.) to permit the development of a 31- and 29-storey
mixed-use building containing 441 strata-titled residential units, 98 social housing
units, a 37-space childcare facility and commercial space on the ground floor, be
approved in principle;
FURTHER THAT the draft CD-1 By-law, prepared in accordance with Appendix
B of the Referral Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled “Vancouver ODP
Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue,” be approved in
principle;Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 4
FURTHER THAT the proposed form of development also be approved in
principle, generally as prepared by Chris Dikeakos Architects Inc., received on
July 17, 2025, and revised drawings received March 2, 2026;
FURTHER THAT the above approvals be subject to the Conditions of Approval
contained in Appendix C of the above-noted report;
FURTHER THAT the Vancouver Official Development Plan amendment by-law
only be brought forward for enactment if the conditions in Appendix C of the
above-noted report for the enactment of the CD-1 By-law are satisfied;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
CD-1 By-law for enactment following the enactment of the Vancouver Official
Development Plan amendment By-law;
AND FURTHER THAT the staff yellow memorandum dated May 29, 2026,
entitled “Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th
Avenue – Council Considerations when Amending an ODP,” form a part of this
motion.
C. THAT subject to approval in principle of the Vancouver Official Development Plan
amendment, rezoning and the Housing Agreement described in Part 2 of
Appendix C of the Referral Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled, “Vancouver
ODP Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue,” the Director of
Legal Services be instructed to prepare the necessary Housing Agreement By-
law for enactment prior to enactment of the CD-1 By-law, subject to such terms
and conditions as may be required at the discretion of the Director of Legal
Services and the General Manager of Planning, Urban Design and Sustainability.
D. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the application to amend the Sign
By-law to establish regulations for the CD-1, generally as set out in Appendix D
of the Referral Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled “Vancouver ODP
Amendment and CD-1 Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue,” be approved.
E. THAT subject to approval of the CD-1 By-law, the Noise Control By-law be
amended to include this CD-1, generally set out in Appendix D of the Referral
Report dated April 21, 2026, entitled “Vancouver ODP Amendment and CD-1
Rezoning: 1745 West 8th Avenue”;
FURTHER THAT the Director of Legal Services be instructed to bring forward the
amendment to the Noise Control By-law at the time of enactment of the CD-1 By-
law.
F. THAT A to E above be adopted on the following conditions:
(i) THAT the passage of the above resolutions creates no legal rights for the
applicant or any other person, or obligation on the part of the City and any
expenditure of funds or incurring of costs is at the risk of the person
making the expenditure or incurring the cost;Council Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 5
(ii) THAT any approval that may be granted shall not obligate the City to
enact a by-law to amend the Vancouver Official Development Plan or
rezone the property, and any costs incurred in fulfilling requirements
imposed as a condition of rezoning are at the risk of the property owner;
and
(iii) THAT the City and all its officials, including the Approving Officer, shall
not in any way be limited or directed in the exercise of their authority or
discretion, regardless of when they are called upon to exercise such
authority or discretion.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY (Vote No. 11715)
(Councillor Orr abstained from the vote)
(Councillor Fry ineligible to vote)
URGENT BUSINESS
1. A By-law to amend the Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674 regarding a miscellaneous
amendment
MOVED by Councillor Montague
SECONDED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
THAT Council enact the By-law entitled “A By-law to amend the Vacancy Tax By-law No.
11674 regarding a miscellaneous amendment,” and authorize the Mayor and
City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend the Vacancy Tax By-law No. 11674 regarding a miscellaneous
amendment” (By-law No. 14749)
2. Requests for Leave of Absence
MOVED by Mayor Sim
SECONDED by Councillor Zhou
THAT Mayor Sim be granted a Leave of Absence for personal reasons from meetings on
July 21, 2026.
BY-LAWS
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor MontagueCouncil Meeting
Minutes, Wednesday, June 3, 2026 6
THAT Council enact the by-laws listed on the agenda for this meeting as number 1, and
2, and authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to sign and seal the enacted by-law.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
1. A By-law to amend Zoning and Development By-law No. 3575 to implement changes
required by section 634 of the Vancouver Charter (By-law No. 14747)
2. A By-law to amend Downtown Official Development Plan By-law 4912 to implement
changes required by section 634 of the Vancouver Charter (By-law No. 14748)
ADJOURNMENT
MOVED by Councillor Kirby-Yung
SECONDED by Councillor Montague
THAT the meeting be adjourned.
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
The Council adjourned at 4:16 pm.
* * * * *