Policy Handbook
Policy 1
FOUNDATIONAL STATEMENTS
Values Statement
The Vancouver School Board believes an effective public education system will prepare students to be
active, productive, and socially responsible citizens.
Students who complete their education with the Vancouver School Board should possess a strong
educational foundation; be disposed to treat others with respect and work cooperatively with them; act
upon the values and principles that make us human; care for themselves, for others, and for the planet;
and exercise a critical intelligence adaptable to new situations.
The VSB will foster school communities where students can learn, see themselves, feel supported and
connected so that they develop a love of learning and become lifelong learners.
Education Plan Equity Statement
The Vancouver School Board – a large, urban school district located on the unceded, traditional lands of
the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish), and səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations –
respects and supports Indigenous ways of knowing and learning.
The VSB will create an equitable learning environment where every child can experience a deep sense of
belonging and is free to pursue pathways of learning in ways that are authentic to themselves. The VSB
will achieve this by:
• having students see themselves and their communities in the curriculum and in the staff
throughout the District;
• prioritizing student needs by making informed decisions and engaging in open communication
with rightsholders and stakeholders; and
• actively fighting systems of oppression through relationship building, ongoing communication
and transparency.
The VSB commitment to equity will be informed by humility and accountability.
Goals and Objectives
Goal 1:
The Vancouver School Board will improve student achievement, physical and mental well-being, and
belonging by …
Policy 1: Foundational Statements
— page 1 of 3 —Policy Handbook
• Encouraging students to reach beyond previous boundaries in knowledge and experience.
• Improving school environments to ensure they are safe, caring, welcoming, and inclusive places
for students and families.
• Increasing literacy, numeracy, and deep, critical, and creative thinking.
• Ensuring that students develop and can implement a plan for a successful transition upon
completion of secondary school.
• Ensuring the alignment among school, district, and provincial education plans.
• Reporting student results about performance, well-being, and outcomes to the community and
using the results to improve the quality and effectiveness of the education and
supports provided to students.
Goal 2:
The Vancouver School Board will increase equity by …
• Eliminating gaps in achievement and outcomes among students.
• Eliminating racism and discrimination in all forms.
• Evaluating and renewing plans for the improvement of Indigenous learners’ education.
• Improving stewardship of the district’s resources by focusing on effectiveness, efficiency, and
sustainability.
Goal 3:
The Vancouver School Board will continue its Reconciliation journey with First Nations, Métis, and Inuit
by …
• Increasing knowledge, awareness, appreciation of, and respect for Indigenous histories,
traditions, cultures, and contributions.
• Aligning its policies and practices in a manner consistent with the United Nations Declaration on
the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the calls to action of the Truth and Reconciliation
Commission.
• Engaging and gathering with the xʷməθkʷəy̓əm (Musqueam), Sḵwxwú7mesh (Squamish) &
səlilwətaɬ (Tsleil-Waututh) Nations.
Policy 1: Foundational Statements
— page 2 of 3 —Policy Handbook
The Logo Design
The Vancouver School Board logo is the property of the Vancouver School Board and shall only be used
by external organizations with prior approval of the Superintendent.
Legal Name
The Board of Education School District No. 39 (Vancouver)
Operational name
Vancouver School Board or VSB
Legal Reference: Sections 65, 75, 85 School Act
Adopted: Sept 24, 2018
Amended: June 27, 2022
January 31, 2022
December 17, 2018
Policy 1: Foundational Statements
— page 3 of 3 —