Policy Handbook
Policy 18
STUDENT TRUSTEE
Policy Statement
The position of Student Trustee has been established by the Vancouver Board of Education (VBE) to encourage
open communication between the student body and the Board, increasing student engagement in School
District governance, and increase student participation in planning, policy and program development.
1. Role Description And Expectations
The Student Trustee:
1.1. Is not a member of the Board, is not entitled to vote on any matter before the Board or any of its
committees and does not have the statutory powers or duties of a School Trustee under the School
Act.
1.2. Will attend all regular public meetings of the Board but is not entitled to be present at any private
meetings.
1.3. May attend Board standing committee meetings, except private standing committee meetings.
1.4. Will participate with other trustees in discussions and provide a student perspective on matters
before the Board.
1.5. Will comply with the Student Trustee Conflict of Interest Guidelines in Appendix 1.
1.6. Is not entitled to move a motion but may submit a suggested motion on any matter to the Secretary
Treasurer’s Office no later than four (4) weeks prior to the scheduled Board meeting.
1.7. Shall have access to all information and resources provided to Board members (e.g. reports, training
sessions, etc.) with the exception of information related to matters which are being considered at a
private meeting or from which persons other than trustees are excluded.
1.8. Will present a Student Trustee report at the monthly regular board meeting.
1.9. Will report regularly to the students of the VBE, through the Vancouver District Students’ Council
(VDSC), the activities of the Board pertaining to public meetings of the Board and its committees.
1.10. Is encouraged to visit and meet with secondary school students in schools within the Vancouver
School District.
2. Eligibility And Qualifications
2.1. To qualify to be nominated and hold the position of Student Trustee, the person must meet the
following qualifications:
2.1.1. Be a student in regular attendance at a VBE secondary school.
2.1.2. Be 16 years of age or older by December 31 of the school year in which the student trustee holds
office.
Policy 18: Student Trustee Page 1 of 3Policy Handbook
2.1.3. Have parental or guardian consent (if under 19 years of age).
2.1.4. Be a member of the Vancouver District Students’ Council (VDSC).
2.1.5. Make a prescribed oath of office, by oath or solemn affirmation, at the first meeting of their term
in office.
3. Election Of A Student Trustee
In order to elect a Student Trustee, the VDSC must follow the process outlined below.
3.1. The election for Student Trustee shall be conducted by the VDSC in May/June for the following school
year.
3.2. Each member of the VDSC is eligible to be nominated as a candidate for the position of Student
Trustee, subject to section 2 of this Policy.
3.3. Candidates interested in election as a Student Trustee will provide members of the VDSC with a
personal resume and/or a letter of intent at least forty-eight hours prior to the meeting of the VDSC
to elect the Student Trustee.
3.4. At the VDSC meeting to elect the Student Trustee, candidates will be provided the opportunity to
make a five minute presentation to the members of the VDSC.
3.5. Where there is more than one candidate, the VDSC will elect, by secret ballot, the Student Trustee
representative from among the candidates. Balloting will continue, dropping off the candidate with
the fewest votes, until one candidate achieves a simple majority.
3.6. VDSC will notify the VBE Secretary Treasurer of the person elected as Student Trustee.
3.7. In the event that the Student Trustee leaves office before the completion of their term, the VDSC will
conduct an election for a new Student Trustee for the balance of the term.
4. Term Of Office
4.1. The term of office for the Student Trustee will be one school year beginning September 1 of the year
in which the Student Trustee is elected and ending June 30 of the following year.
4.2. A Student Trustee may be re-elected by the VDSC and may serve a maximum of two years. The
Student Trustee is expected to serve only during the school year.
5. Disqualification Of A Student Trustee
5.1. A Student Trustee will be disqualified from service if they:
5.1.1. Cease to be a student in a School District No. 39 (Vancouver) school.
5.1.2. Are absent from three consecutive regular meetings of the Board without permission from the
Board.
5.1.3. Are convicted of an offence under the Criminal Code of Canada or under the Youth Criminal
Justice Act.
5.2. A student trustee may be disqualified from service if they:
Policy 18: Student Trustee Page 2 of 3Policy Handbook
5.2.1. Breach the confidentiality of the Board.
5.2.2. Are suspended from school for a serious violation of the Code of Conduct or other Board policies
or school rules.
6. Honorarium And Support For The Student Trustee
6.1. The Student Trustee will receive an honorarium as determined by the Board from year to year. This
honorarium will be pro-rated if a Student Trustee does not serve for the full term.
6.2. The Student Trustee will be reimbursed for any appropriate receipted expenses incurred as a function
of the role, including transportation costs in accordance with Board policies. Further, the Student
Trustee will be supported in attending conference opportunities that relate to the role, with a budget
for conference expenses to be approved by the Board.
6.3. The Student Trustee will be supported in attending one out of District conference opportunity per
school year that relates to the role, if they so choose to attend, with a reasonable budget that aligns
with Board conference expense guidelines.
7. Responsibilities Of The Board Chairperson And Superintendent Of Schools
7.1. The Board Chairperson shall appoint one elected trustee to act as a mentor for the Student Trustee.
7.2. The Superintendent of Schools or designate shall meet with the Student Trustee and their
parent/guardian at the beginning of the school year to discuss their responsibilities and participation.
7.3. The Superintendent of Schools or designate shall meet with the VDSC at the beginning of the school
year to orient them to the role and expectations of Student Trustee to the Board and to encourage
VDSC student representatives to support the Student Trustee.
7.4. The Board Chairperson shall acknowledge the service of the Student Trustee to the Board at the last
Board meeting of the Student Trustee’s term.
7.5. The Board Chairperson and the Superintendent of Schools shall organize an annual liaison meeting
between the Board and VDSC.
7.6. The Superintendent or designate shall provide orientation to the Student Trustee and support the
Student Trustee in fulfilling their duties.
Legal Reference: N/A
Adopted: September 24, 2018
Amended: September 1, 2022
May 27, 2026
Policy 18: Student Trustee Page 3 of 3