Policy Manual
Policy 22
CHILD CARE SERVICES IN DISTRICT FACILITIES
Quality, accessible, and affordable child care provides significant social and economic benefits for the
community and helps build resilience in children throughout their lives. Participation in high-quality
early care and learning programs enhances children’s cognitive, social, emotional, and physical literacy
thereby improving school readiness and providing a strong foundation for future success.
While the funding and regulation of licensed child care is primarily a provincial government
responsibility, the District along with the community stakeholders, can play a significant role in planning
and coordinating child care services for children in Vancouver. This policy recognizes the primary K-12
educational mandate of the Board and provides the foundation to continue the development of options
and opportunities through a collaborative partnership-based approach, to the provision of child care.
The District commits to continuing to work collaboratively with non-profit child care providers,
Indigenous communities and Rightsholders, the City of Vancouver, and the University of British
Columbia/University Endowment Lands to expand access to and options for child care provided on
Board property.
The Board believes its current and long-standing practice of working collaboratively with non-profit
societies and/or associations that deliver quality, inclusive, accessible and affordable licenced child care
is the most effective, efficient, and sustainable model for the delivery of child care programming on
Board property. The Board maintains the authority to determine if a child care program, or programs,
should be operated directly by the Board.
This policy is supported by Administrative Procedure 553 Appendix B.
Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to:
1.1. Affirm the District’s long-standing commitment to working with licenced non-profit societies
and/or associations that deliver quality, inclusive, accessible and affordable child care within
district facilities.
1.2. To confirm the Board’s commitment to continuing to expand access to child care
programming offered on Board property.
1.3. Provide guidance with respect to how the Board will work with child care providers to support
the provision of child care programs on Board property between the hours of 7 am and 6 pm
on business days.
1.4. Define the process by which the Board may consider taking on the role of operating a child
care program(s).
2. Definitions
Policy 22: Child Care Services in District Facilities
— page 1 of 3 —Policy Manual
2.1. Inclusive Child Care: Inclusive child care supports the individual strengths and needs of each
child. All children are welcomed, supported, and valued, allowing them to participate
meaningfully in all aspects of the program. Children of all abilities have equitable access and
are provided supportive opportunities to learn through play with others.
2.2. Direct Costs: Costs incurred that are directly related to providing the program/service
including supplies, wages, and furniture.
2.3. Indirect Costs: Costs incurred that are not directly related to provision of the program/service
including utilities, custodial, and regular maintenance.
2.4. Child care Provider: A licensed non-profit society or association which operates a licensed
child care program on Board property.
2.5. Business Day: A Day other than Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday.
2.6. Educational Activities: Includes the provision of educational programs, early learning
programs and extracurricular school activities.
3. Guiding Principles
The use of Board property to provide child care must not disrupt or otherwise interfere with the
provision of educational activities. In determining and allocating space for the provision of child
care, priority will be given to the provision of educational activities.
3.1. The Board will continue to engage and work collaboratively with the City of Vancouver,
University of British Columbia/University Endowment Lands, existing child care providers,
Indigenous Communities and Rightsholders (through the Indigenous Education Council) and
parents to assess community need for child care on Board property and to determine
opportunities to expand child care spaces.
3.2. Child care programs operated by child care providers on Board property must agree to:
3.2.1 Provide inclusive and culturally relevant child care consistent with the principles of non-
discrimination set out in the British Columbia Human Rights Code.
3.2.2 Foster Indigenous reconciliation.
3.2.2.1 All programs will be operated consistent with the following principles of the
British Columbia Declaration of Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act: (i) Indigenous
peoples have the right, without discrimination, to the improvement of their
economic and social conditions, including in the area of education; and (ii)
“Indigenous peoples have the right to the dignity and diversity of their cultures,
traditions, histories and aspirations which shall be appropriately reflected in
education”.
Policy 22: Child Care Services in District Facilities
— page 2 of 3 —Policy Manual
3.2.3 Maintain a program philosophy and management concept congruent with the values of
this Policy and the Board’s Education Plan.
3.2.4 Demonstrate successful experience as a licensed child care operator.
3.2.5 Opt into the Provincial Fee Reduction initiative or another no/low fee operational
funding initiative(s) (i.e., Aboriginal Head Start).
3.2.6 Demonstrate financial stability.
3.2.7 Utilize the BC Early Learning Framework to guide and support learning experiences in 0-
5 child care settings.
3.2.8 Comply with all conditions as set forth in the Policy and its’ corresponding Administrative Procedure.
3.3. Fees for the use of Board property by child care providers will not exceed the direct and
indirect costs the Board incurs in making board property available for the child care program.
3.4. At the Board's discretion, staff may be directed to explore possibilities for the Board to open
and operate a child care program(s) on Board property. For any such Board operated program
to be considered the following factors should be met:
3.4.1 There is a clear demonstration of demand within the school community for such a
program.
3.4.2 The new program will not result in the displacement of an existing child care program.
3.4.3 The program is financially viable and will not result in additional costs to the District.
Fees charged for a Board run program must not be greater than the direct costs
associated with operating the program.
3.4.4 Staffing and physical space are available.
3.4.5 Operating the program will not result in disruption to educational activities.
3.4.6 The program will foster Indigenous reconciliation (see 3.2.2.1) and provide inclusive
and culturally relevant child care.
Legal Reference: Ministerial Order M326/20 Child Care Ministerial Order M326/20
Education Statutes Amendment Act – 85.1,85.2, 85.3 and 85.4
Vancouver School Board - Board Policy Handbook
Adopted: May 1, 2023
Policy 22: Child Care Services in District Facilities
— page 3 of 3 —