VANCOUVER BOARD OF
PARKS AND RECREATION
PARK BY-LAWS
(Consolidated for convenience only
to May 27, 2024)
This By-law is printed under and
by authority of the Vancouver Board of
Parks and RecreationTABLE OF CONTENTS
PARKS CONTROL BY-LAW 3
Interpretation 4
General Regulations 5
Recreational Facilities 12
Bathing Beaches And Swimming Pools 13
Consumption Of Liquor 14
Miscellaneous Provisions 15
Schedule 1 – Areas Where Dogs Are Permitted To Be Off Leash 17
Schedule 2A – Parks and Areas of Parks Where Liquor May Be Consumed 18
Schedule 2B – Parks and Areas of Parks Where Liquor May Be Consumed 34
Schedule 2C – Parks and Areas of Parks Where Liquor May Be Consumed 42
PARKS REMOVAL OF ANIMAL MANURE, DUNG, REFUSE AND WASTE 46
REGULATE SMOKING IN PARKS 48
Interpretation 48
Application 49
Health Regulations 49
Offences And Penalties 50
Enactment 50
Schedule A – Park Sites 51
ENFORCEMENT OF CERTAIN BY-LAW OFFENCES BY TICKET 54
Interpretation 54
Regulation Of Ticket Offences 54
Table 1 – Park Board Smoking Regulation By-Law 55
Table 2 – Parks Control By-law 56
Enactment 56
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 2 of 56PARKS CONTROL BY-LAW
A By-law for the Control, Regulation, Protection and Government of Public Parks and of Places within
the Jurisdiction of the Board and of Persons who may be therein.
WHEREAS, under and by virtue of the provisions of the Vancouver Charter, being
Chapter 55 of the British Columbia Statutes, 1953 (which, with all amendments thereto,
is hereinafter referred to as the "Vancouver Charter"), the Board of Parks and
Recreation is authorized to pass by-laws from time to time for the control, regulation,
protection and government of the parks and persons who may be therein;
AND WHEREAS it is deemed expedient to make certain regulations for the control,
regulation, protection and government of the public parks and of places within the
jurisdiction of the Board and of persons who may be therein;
THEREFORE the Board of Parks and Recreation of the City of Vancouver, in open
meeting, enacts as follows:
This by-law may be cited as the "Parks Control By-law".
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 3 of 56INTERPRETATION
1. In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions shall have
the meanings hereinafter assigned to them, that is to say:
(a) “ATTRACTANT” means food or food waste, meat, a carcass or part of a carcass of an
animal or fish, compost or any other waste that could attract wildlife.
(b) "BATHING BEACH" means an area adjacent to the shore of the sea or a lake and
normally used for swimming and similar aquatic exercises or for sun bathing.
(c) "BOARD" means and includes the Board of Parks and Recreation of the City of
Vancouver as constituted under the provisions of the Vancouver Charter.
(d) "BOULEVARDS" means and includes any portion of any street or highway under its
jurisdiction which has been sodded, seeded or otherwise improved and maintained by
the Board.
(e) "CETACEANS" means a marine mammal belonging to the Cetacea order and
includes, but is not limited to, baleen whales, narwhals, dolphins, porpoises, killer
whales and beluga whales.
(f) "DRIVEWAY", "ROADWAY", "PATH", "TRAIL", or "FIRE TRAIL" mean and include
any way or thoroughfare set apart and improved by grading, gravelling or other means
for the use of pedestrians, vehicular, or animal traffic.
(g) "EMERGENCY VEHICLE" means any vehicle of the Fire Department of the City or
Provincial Police Departments, or any municipal or provincial licensed ambulances and
such vehicles of the armed forces or public utilities as are designated as emergency
vehicles by the Chief Constable of the City of Vancouver.
(h) "GENERAL MANAGER" means the General Manager of Parks and Recreation of the
Board as duly appointed by the Board “and includes any person authorized to carry out
the powers and duties of the General Manager.
(i) “HOMELESSNESS” means the state of having no access to permanent or temporary
housing, accommodation, or shelter.
(j) “LIQUOR” means, subject to the Liquor Control and Licensing Regulation, B.C. Reg.
241/2016, beer, wine, spirits or other product that is intended for human consumption
and that contains more than 1% alcohol by volume.
(k) "LITTER" means garbage, refuse and all other waste material which is the waste
product of something purchased within a park or brought into a park for use or
consumption within the park.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 4 of 56(l) “NATURAL AREAS” are those areas of parks that are managed to retain their natural
ecosystem attributes, are relatively undisturbed in an urban context, contain native or
naturalized non-native plant species, and provide wildlife habitat, stormwater retention,
and other ecosystem services; these include forests, ponds, wetlands, stream riparian
zones, coastal environments, meadows, treed areas without mown understory, and
unmanicured sections of golf courses.
(m) "PARKS" means and includes public parks, playgrounds, driveways, roadways, paths,
trails, fire trails, boulevards, beaches, bathing beaches, swimming pools, community
recreation centres, golf courses, playfields, buildings and other public places under the
custody, care, management and jurisdiction of the Board.
(n) "PERSON" includes any corporation, society, firm, partnership, association or party.
(o) "PLACES" means buildings and improvements and includes community recreation
centres, rinks, indoor pools, arenas and refreshment buildings.
(p) “TEMPORARY SHELTER” means a tent or canopy that provides overnight shelter to a
person experiencing homelessness and that is capable of being dismantled and
moved by one person.
(q) "VEHICLE" includes any device, in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a street, irrespective of the motive power, including a
horse led or ridden.
(r) “WILDLIFE” means all amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals, both native and not
native to the Province, excluding any domesticated animal under the control of a
human.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
2. No person shall cut, break, injure, remove or in any way destroy or damage any rock, soil, tree,
shrub, plant, turf or flower, or any building, structure, fence, sign, seat, bench or ornament of
any kind or in any way foul or pollute any fountain, lake, stream, pool, pond, well or spring in
any park, or injure, deface or destroy any notices, rules or regulations posted or affixed to
anything by order or permission of the Board.
3. (a) No person shall climb, walk, or sit upon any wall, fence or other structure, except play
apparatus or seating specifically provided for such use, in or upon any park; or cross,
travel on or use any grass plot or land where signs have been posted forbidding such
use.
(b) Except as provided in section 11A, no person shall enter or remain in a park except during
the hours posted.
4. (a) (i) Except with the permission of the Board, no person shall, in any park, sell, offer
to sell, or expose for sale any food, beverage, or article or thing of any kind;
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 5 of 56(ii) Except with the permission of the Board, no person shall, in any park, provide or
offer to provide for a fee any service;
(iii) Except with the permission of the Board, granted pursuant to the provisions of
section 490 of the Vancouver Charter, no person shall occupy any park or any
portion thereof.
(b) The General Manager, a Peace Officer or any person employed by the Board, may remove
or cause to be removed from any park any article or thing as aforementioned contrary
to the provisions of this by-law at the expense of the owner, contractor or other person
responsible for such article or thing; and the General Manager is hereby empowered
to do every lawful act required under the circumstances to have any such article or
thing removed in the shortest possible time and to hold any article or thing as above
mentioned until the expense of the removal thereof has been paid.
5. Every person who violates any of the provisions of this by-law, or who suffers or permits any
act or thing to be done in contravention or in violation of any of the provisions of this by-law,
or who neglects to do or refrains from doing anything required to be done by any of the
provisions of this by-law, or who does any act which violates any of the provisions of this by-
law, or who fails to comply with an order, direction, or notice given under this by- law is guilty of
an offence against this by-law and liable to the penalties hereby imposed. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist will constitute a separate offence.
6. (a) Every person who commits an offence against this by-law is punishable on conviction
by a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more than $2,000.00 for each offence.
(b) Every person who commits an offence of a continuing nature against this by-law is
liable to a fine not exceeding $50.00 for each day such offence is continued.
7. No person shall play at any game whatsoever in or on any portion of any park except upon or in
such portions thereof as may be especially allotted, designed and provided, respectively, for
any purpose, and under such rules and regulations and at such times as shall be prescribed
by the Board, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no person shall:
(a) play golf or strike a golf ball;
(b) fly any motor-driven model airplane;
(c) shoot any arrow or practice archery;
(d) take part in any ball game;
(e) use a skateboard, roller skates, ice skates or any similar device;
except in areas designated or permitted for such activities.
8. (a) No person shall take part in any procession, drill, march, performance, ceremony,
concert, gathering or meeting in or on any park or driveway unless with the written
permission of the General Manager first had and obtained.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 6 of 56(b) No person shall make a public address or demonstration or do any other thing likely to
cause a public gathering or attract public attention in any park without the written
permission of the General Manager first had and obtained.
(c) No person shall operate any amplifying system or loud speaker in any park without the
written permission of the General Manager first had and obtained.
(d) No person shall launch or recover a surfboard, windsurfer, canoe, standup
paddleboard, or any other type of non-powered watercraft on a beach except in areas
that are designated for launch and recovery by the General Manager.
(e) No person shall, for gain or in the expectation of a fee, reward or other benefits, instruct
or offer to instruct another person in the use, enjoyment, or operation of a surfboard,
windsurfer, canoe or boat in a park or on a beach save with the prior written consent
of the General Manager.
(f) No person shall operate or possess a chain saw on any beach or in any park and no
person shall cut logs or wood on a beach or in a park and no person shall remove any
logs or wood from a beach or park; provided that persons may operate chain saws on,
cut logs on, and remove cut logs for their personal use from areas of beaches as are
from time to time designated in writing by the General Manager and at such times and
on such conditions as stipulated by the General Manager which conditions shall and
must include the assumption by such persons of all risk of harm and injury arising from
or in any way associated with the operation of chain saws and the cutting and removal
of logs by whomsoever.
(g) No person shall sing, play a musical instrument, or otherwise perform or provide
entertainment in any area of a park which has been designated by the General
Manager as an area in which entertainment is not allowed.
9. (a) No person as owner or having the control of any animal or fowl shall suffer or permit
such animal or fowl to run at large or feed upon any park except that a dog which is in
the custody of a competent person is permitted:
(i) any area, except where the General Manager has posted the notice referred to in
subsection (aa) if it is on a leash not exceeding 2 and 2 metres in length; and
(ii) to be off a leash in an area designated in Schedule 1of this By-law within the time
limits established by the General Manager and posted within the area.
(aa) Despite subsection (a) the General Manager may post areas where dogs or other
animals are prohibited, including limitations in time.
(b) Any dog, fowl or other animal found in any park, beach or bathing beach in
contravention of this by-law may be impounded and shall then be subject to the
provisions of the Animal Control By-law. The owner or other person having custody of
such animal or fowl who suffers or permits the same to run at large or feed in or on any
such park or driveway shall be deemed to be guilty of an infraction of this by-law and
shall be liable to the penalties hereinafter imposed.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 7 of 56(c) Except as permitted by subsection (a) and notwithstanding any of the provisions of
subsection (b) above, all dogs are prohibited from bathing beaches and other areas
posted by the General Manager, and the provisions of the Pound By-law with reference
to impoundment contained in subsection (b) above shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(d) No person shall operate a horse-drawn vehicle within any park without first obtaining
approval therefor from the Board.
(e) No person shall bring a cetacean into a park.
(f) No person shall keep a cetacean in a park, except that this prohibition does not apply
to cetaceans already in a park on date of enactment.
(g) No person shall produce or present in a park a show, performance, or other form of
entertainment, which includes one or more cetaceans.
9A. A person must not:
(a) feed or attempt to feed wildlife in any park;
(b) provide, leave or place an attractant in any park in a manner that attracts or could
attract wildlife.
10. No person shall conduct himself or herself in a disorderly or offensive manner, or molest or
injure any other person, or loiter or take up a temporary abode overnight in any place on any
portion of any park except as provided in section 11A, or obstruct the free use and enjoyment
of any park or place by any other person, or violate any by-law, rule, regulation, notice or
command of the Board, the General Manager, Peace Officer, or any other person in control of
or maintaining, superintending, or supervising any park of or under the custody, control and
management of the Board; and any person conducting himself or herself as aforesaid may be
removed or otherwise dealt with as in this by-law provided.
11. No person shall erect, construct or build or cause to be erected, constructed or built in or on
any park any tent, building, shelter, pavilion or other construction whatsoever without the
permission of the General Manager, except that this provision does not apply to a temporary
shelter that complies with the provisions of this by-law.
11A. A person experiencing homelessness may take up temporary abode in a park if that
person:
(a) is in a park or a specified area of a park in which a temporary shelter is not
prohibited by this by-law;
(b) erects a temporary shelter that complies with the provisions of this by-law; and
(c) dismantles and moves the temporary shelter in accordance with the provisions of this
by-law.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 8 of 5611B. A temporary shelter:
(a) must not be erected:
i. within 25 metres of:
A. a playground or school; or
B. licensed childcare facilities,
ii. in, on or within a:
A. parking lot;
B. trail, bridge, seawall, roadway or park entrance;
C. natural area;
D. garden or horticultural display area;
E. pool or water park;
F. sports field, sports court, skate park, fitness amenity or golf course;
G. community centre or fieldhouse;
H. bleacher, stage, gazebo, public monument, designated picnic site, picnic
shelter or washroom;
I. designated off-leash dog area; or
J. designated special event area for which permission has been given in
accordance with this by-law; or
iii. in Queen Elizabeth Park or VanDusen Botanical Garden;
iv. under the canopy of a tree; or
v. in, on, or within 7 metres of a beach, pond, lake, dock, cliff or steep slope;
(b) may only be erected from dusk until 8:00am the following day, unless in an area
designated by the General Manager as acceptable for temporary daytime shelter;
(c) must be dismantled and moved by 8:00am each day, unless in an area designated by
the General Manager as acceptable for temporary daytime shelter;
(d) must not impede public use of, or access to, a park or facility;
(e) must not obstruct the ability of staff or contractors to perform their work;
(f) must not exceed a maximum footprint of 100 square feet (10 ft x 10 ft);
(g) must not contain any campfire, lighted candles, propane lanterns or stoves, or other
similar devices;
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 9 of 56(h) must have at least 1 metre of clearance on all sides from another temporary shelter
and any park infrastructure, including park buildings, facilities or structures; and
(i) must not be tied or affixed to another temporary shelter, a tree, or any park
infrastructure, including park buildings, facilities or structures.
11C. If a temporary shelter has a footprint of less than 100 square feet (10 ft x 10 ft), then the
person who occupies that temporary shelter may use an area up to 100 square feet (10 ft x
10 ft), provided that the area contains the temporary shelter.
11D. A person who occupies a temporary shelter:
(1) must ensure that all of their belongings are contained within the temporary shelter or
within the area described in section 11C;
(2) must ensure that the area upon which the temporary shelter was erected is left tidy
and clear of debris after it has been dismantled and moved;
(3) despite sections 4(a)(i) and 4(a)(ii) of this by-law, must not use the temporary shelter
to sell goods or conduct business; and
(4) in the case of a temporary shelter erected in an area designated by the General
Manager as acceptable for daytime shelter, must occupy the temporary shelter for
overnight sheltering purposes regularly when the shelter remains in the designated
area.
11E. In the case of temporary shelters erected in an area designated by the General Manager as
acceptable for daytime shelter, if required for health and safety reasons or for park
maintenance purposes, the General Manager may order a person occupying a temporary
shelter to:
(1) relocate the temporary shelter to another location in the designated area; or;
(2) remove the temporary shelter from the designated area,
and such order must be served by affixing it to the temporary shelter occupied by that
person.
11F. The General Manager may designate an area acceptable for temporary daytime shelter
even if the area designated does not comply with the distancing requirements set out in
sections 11B(a)(i) or (v).
11G. The General Manager may inspect the interior and exterior of a temporary shelter erected in
an area designated by the General Manager as acceptable for daytime shelter after serving
at least 24 hours’ notice to the person occupying the temporary shelter, and such notice
must be served by affixing it to the temporary shelter occupied by that person).
12. No person shall use, occupy or travel along or upon any park, flower bed, roadway or other
park property in such manner as to obstruct or cause an obstruction with a vehicle or any other
object, or to interfere with any person or traffic lawfully using the same; or encumber or
obstruct, or cause to be encumbered or obstructed in any manner whatsoever, any park, flower
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 10 of 56bed, roadway or other park property without the permission of the General Manager first had
and obtained; and any person receiving any such permission shall at all times be subject to
the conditions thereby imposed, and save harmless and protect the Board from and against
any and all claims, demands, suits or compensation of whatsoever kind arising either directly
or indirectly out of the permission thereby granted, and shall likewise be subject to such further
conditions, regulations and orders as may be imposed by the Board in the premises. Any
vehicle so causing an obstruction may be impounded and thereafter the provisions of the
Impounding By-law shall apply mutatis mutandis, provided however, that any person receiving
permission of the General Manager first had and obtained shall not be subject to impoundment
under this section.
13. The Board or the General Manager or any person employed by them or him, may remove or
cause to be removed from any park, flower bed or roadway, any obstruction, vehicle,
temporary shelter, or thing placed therein or thereon contrary to the provisions of this by- law,
at the expense of the owner, contractor or other person responsible for such obstruction; and
the General Manager is hereby empowered to do every lawful act required under the
circumstances to have any such obstruction, vehicle, temporary shelter, or thing removed in
the shortest possible time and to hold any article or thing causing such obstruction until the
expense of the removal thereof has been paid.
14. No person shall, without permission of the General Manager first had and obtained:
(a) hinder or interrupt, or cause to be hindered or interrupted, the Board, General
Manager, or any engineer, surveyor, manager, contractor, servant, or worker
employed by or responsible to the Board in the exercise of any of the powers and
authorities vested in the Board by authority of the Vancouver Charter or in this by- law
authorized and contained;
(b) let off or discharge any water so that the same runs waste and useless from or out of
any reservoir, pond, pool, lake, stream or hydrant connected with any park;
(c) except as permitted by section 9 (a) cause or permit any dog or other animal to enter
into the water of a reservoir, pond, pool, lake, stream or a water receptacle associated
with a park;
(d) post, paint, affix, distribute or deliver any advertisement, handbill, poster or advertising
card of any kind in any park;
(e) permit any horse to walk or run over any grass area, flower bed, footpath or other
location in any park with the exception of bridle trails specifically provided therefor;
(f) drive any vehicle over any grass area or flower bed in any park;
(g) drive any vehicle on any footpath or promenade in any park;
(h) ride any bicycle, motor assisted cycle, or electric kick scooter upon any sidewalk,
footpath or promenade in any park unless such sidewalk, footpath or promenade has
been so designated as a cycle path and specifically provided therefor, and in this
respect the provisions of the Street and Traffic By-law shall apply mutatis mutandis:
(i) bring any glass beverage bottles or containers into any park or onto any beach;
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 11 of 56(j) light a fire or place fuel on a fire in or on any park or beach;
(k) park a vehicle or suffer a vehicle to be parked in any portion of a park not being a street:
(i) for a period not longer than thirty (30) minutes between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day; or
(ii) in contravention of a sign setting forth parking restriction or limitations; and the
General Manager or any Peace Officer may cause any such vehicle to be
removed, at the owner's cost, by any towing company operating in the City of
Vancouver, and such towing company shall, as agent for the Board of Parks and
Recreation, charge the owner reasonable charges only for effecting the removal
and for storage until claimed;
(l) bring into a park any of the following:
(i) pallets,
(ii) fencing,
(iii) lumber, plywood, drywall, insulation, or any other construction material,
(iv) generators, or
(v) power tools, except as permitted under section 8(f); or
(m) tamper with any park infrastructure, including electrical systems, irrigation systems,
plumbing systems, washrooms and fieldhouses.
14A. Except for litter which is deposited in compliance with section 14B, no person shall deposit any
garbage, refuse or other waste material in a park.
14B. No person shall deposit litter in a park except in litter containers provided, maintained or
authorized by the Board.
14C. In any area of a park where litter containers are not provided, all litter shall be removed from
the park by the person responsible for its presence.
14D. No person shall discharge, throw or deposit any injurious, noxious or offensive thing or matter
into a reservoir pond, pool, lake, stream or other water receptacle connected with a park, or
on to the beach of a park, or on to the ice of a reservoir, pond, pool, lake stream or other
receptacle for water where the water is frozen, or in any other way foul the water, or commit
any unlawful damage or injury to the works, pipes or water, or encourage any other person to
do the same.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 12 of 56RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
15. All fees and other charges imposed or designated for the use of any park or any part thereof
including but not limited to any community recreational facility, court, green, grounds, lawn,
golf course, pitch and putt facility or putting green shall be payable and paid before the
commencement of any game, unless otherwise specifically arranged for with the General
Manager, and any person failing to do so shall be deemed to be guilty of an infraction of this
by-law and any such person as aforesaid may be removed by a Peace Officer or other person
authorized to do so, and shall be liable to the penalties hereinafter imposed. The provisions of
the Offence Act of the Province of British Columbia shall apply mutatis mutandis hereto.
16. No person shall play any game or sport in or on any park or recreational facility unless suitably
clad and equipped with the requisite appliances for such games, and only at such times, or
during the seasons and under such rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the General
Manager.
17. Where any park or recreational facility shall be allotted to any club or organization, the same
shall not be used by any person or persons unless he or she be a member of such club or
organization, during such time as the same may be so allotted, except when tournaments,
series of games or competitions with outside bodies have been duly authorized by the General
Manager.
18. No person shall wilfully, maliciously or carelessly damage or destroy the utility of any public
recreational facility, court, green, grounds or lawn, golf course, pitch and putt facility, putting
green or skateboard park or in any way interfere with or obstruct the free uses thereof by those
lawfully entitled to the use of same.
19. No tournament, series of games or competition shall be played in any park or on any court,
green, grounds, lawn, golf course, pitch and putt facility or putting green by any person, group
of persons, organization or club without the written permission of the General Manager.
BATHING BEACHES AND SWIMMING POOLS
20. All fees and other charges imposed or designated for the use of any swimming pool shall be
payable and paid before the commencement of any use of the pool unless otherwise
specifically arranged for with the General Manager and any person failing to do so shall be
deemed to be guilty of an infraction of this by-law and any such person as aforesaid may be
removed by a Peace Officer or other person authorized to do so, and shall be liable to the
penalties hereinafter imposed.
The provisions of the Offence Act of the Province of British Columbia shall apply mutatis
mutandis hereto.
21. No person shall enter or bathe in any water in or adjoining any park, bathing beach, swimming
pool or wading pool without being properly clothed for bathing, or where such person is
suffering from any contagious or communicable disease or from open sores. No person shall
disobey any command or order of any person having the superintendence, management or
control of any such park, bathing beach, swimming or wading pool, or the command or order
of any lifeguard or other person in charge of or superintending any bathing beach, swimming
or wading pool, and no person shall encourage or permit the swimming of any animal, except
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 13 of 56as permitted by section 9 (a) or the fouling of any waters therein or immediately adjacent
thereto; and any person contravening any rule and regulation applicable thereto authorized by
the Board shall be deemed to be guilty of an infraction of this by-law.
22. No person shall:
(a) undress or dress in or adjacent to any park, bathing beach or swimming pool except
in the places specially provided for such purpose;
(b) be allowed use of any park, beach, swimming pool or bath house if nude or improperly
clad;
(c) play ball or any game so as to molest or interfere with or become a nuisance to the
general public on any bathing beach or lawn area in the vicinity thereof where the
playing of games or sports is prohibited;
(d) loiter in any bathhouse, or conduct themselves in such manner as to be objectionable
to other patrons or the public in or immediately adjacent to any such bathhouse or
bathing beach;
(e) use any boat, motor-boat, sea sled, water skis, power saw, or other contrivance or thing
near to any bathing beach that does or may endanger, disturb or otherwise interfere
with the free use of the water for bathing and swimming purposes;
(f) fish from or adjacent to any bathing beach so posted as prohibited, or cast or haul in
any net or other fishing contrivance therein or therefrom; and any person so doing shall
be deemed to be guilty of an infraction of this by-law and subject to the penalties
provided for herein. Any such person or persons may be removed from the beach by
a Peace Officer or other person so authorized by the Board and dealt with as in this by-
law provided;
(g) interfere with, obstruct, impede, hinder or prevent the discharge of the duties of any
attendant, lifeguard or other person engaged in superintending, controlling, instructing
or overseeing swimming, bathing or aquatic sports or games at or in any swimming
tank or pool or on any bathing beach under his or her supervision or control;
(h) create any undue disturbance, congregation or alarm that will cause or tend to cause
panic, excitement, or any hazard, annoyance or interference with swimmers and
bathers, in or on any bathing beach, swimming or wading pool, or adjacent hereto;
(i) except as permitted by section 9(a) bring to any bathing beach or the water adjacent
thereto, any dog, or be accompanied by or harbour a dog on any bathing beach or in
or on any waters adjacent thereto;
(j) bring to any bathing beach or the water adjacent thereto, any underwater spear,
shooting device, or other object or use any floating object which, in the opinion of the
lifeguard or attendant, is considered unsafe or hazardous;
(k) swim or otherwise utilize the water at any bathing beach or in any swimming or wading
pool between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.;
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 14 of 56(l) in any portion of a park designated as a "quiet area" and posted as such, operate a
radio, tape player, or other device capable of transmitting live or recorded sound, unless
the sound is transmitted directly to a person's ears through the use of headphones.
23. No male person shall enter any portion of any bath house set apart for the use of female
persons, and no female person shall enter any portion of any bath house set apart for the use
of male persons.
CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR
23A. The parks or parts thereof listed in Schedules 2A, 2B and 2C of this by-law, the boundaries of
which will be identified by signs posted in accordance with this by-law, are hereby designated
as places where liquor may be consumed.
23B. Liquor may be consumed in a park:
(a) In the areas designated as places where liquor may be consumed under section 23A of
this by-law;
(b) year-round, in the areas listed in Schedule 2A, starting June 1, 2023;
(c) between July 1 and August 31 of each calendar year, in the areas listed in Schedule 2B;
(d) between June 1, 2024 and September 30, 2024, in the areas listed in Schedule 2C; and
(e) between the hours of 11:00am and 9:00pm,
except that if the General Manager permits a special event in an area, or part of an area, that
has been designated as an area where liquor may be consumed, then the General Manager
may temporarily suspend the designation of that area, or a part of that area, for the duration
of the special event.
23C. The General Manager or their delegate must post signs setting out:
(a) the boundaries of the places where liquor may be consumed; and
(b) the hours that liquor may be consumed.
23D. The signs referred to in section 23C must:
(a) number no fewer than what is required to reasonably indicate the boundaries of the
designated place;
(b) be a minimum of 12 inches by 18 inches; and
(c) be posted on posts or affixed to other items along the boundaries of the places where
liquor may be consumed.
23E. All of the other provisions of this by-law remain in effect at all times in the designated
areas.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 15 of 56MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
24. The General Manager shall post areas within all parks and recreational facilities for the
purpose of prohibiting, restricting or regulating any activity within the area posted and shall have
the right to enforce all sections of this by-law herein.
25. Every person who violates any of the provisions of this by-law, or who suffers or permits any
act or thing to be done in contravention or in violation of any of the provisions of this by-law,
or who neglects to do or refrains from doing anything required to be done by any of the
provisions of this by-law, or who does any act which violates any of the provisions of this by-
law, or who fails to comply with an order, direction, or notice given under this by- law is guilty of
an offence against this by-law and liable to the penalties hereby imposed. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist will constitute a separate offence.
26. (a) Every person who commits an offence against this by-law is punishable on conviction by
a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more than $2,000.00 for each offence.
(b) Every person who commits an offence of a continuing nature against this by-law is
liable to a fine not exceeding $50.00 for each day such offence is continued.
27. It is the intention of the Board that each separate provision of this by-law shall be deemed
independent of all other provisions herein and it is further the intention of the Board that if any
provision of this by-law be declared invalid, all other provisions thereof shall remain valid and
enforceable.
28. This by-law shall come into force and take effect on the date of the final passing hereof by the
Board of Parks and Recreation, and shall from such date have the force and effect as provided
under the provisions of the Vancouver Charter where not inconsistent with the provisions of
such Act, or any by-law of the City of Vancouver, or any law of the Province or of Canada.
29. The by-law passed by the Board of Parks and Recreation on the 14th day of May 1962, with
amendments, is hereby repealed.
DONE AND PASSED by the Board of Parks and Recreation, this 25th day of June, 2007.
(Signed) “Ian Robertson)”
Chair, Board of Parks and Recreation
(Signed) “Susan J. Mundick”
General Manager, Board of Parks and Recreation
*****
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 16 of 56Amendments to the Parks Control Bylaw
Are: liquor in parks – May 27, 2024
Amendment re: launch and recovery of non-powered watercrafts – April 9, 2024
Amendment re: assisted cycles and e-scooters – April 9, 2024
Amendment re: temporary shelters in parks – April 9, 2024
Amendment re: liquor in parks – May 8, 2023
Amendment re: liquor in parks – May 16, 2022
Amendment re: feeding wildlife in parks – October 4, 2021
Amendment re: liquor in parks – June 21, 2021
Amendment re: liquor in parks – May 31, 2021
Amendment re: temporary shelters in parks – September 15, 2020
Amendment re: cetaceans in parks - May 15, 2017
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 17 of 56SCHEDULE 1
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE DOGS ARE
PERMITTED TO BE OFF LEASH
Stanley District
Charleson Park Portside Park
Coopers' Park Sunset Beach (bay behind
Nelson Park the Aquatic Centre)
Stanley Park Shuffleboard Court
Vancouver East District
Dusty Greenwell Park Kingcrest Park
Falaise Park Sparwood Park
Fraserview Golf Course Perimeter Pathway Strathcona Park
John Hendry Park (Trout Lake north side) Sunrise Park Jones
Park Tecumseh Park
Killarney Park New Brighton Park
Queen Elizabeth District
Balaclava Park Queen Elizabeth Park
Fraser River Park Quilchena Embankment
George Park Spanish Bank (west of concession)
Locarno Park Extension Sunset Park
(1block south of beach between Valdez Park
Trimble and Sasamat Streets) Vanier Park (west of Maritime
Musqueam Park Museum parking lot)
Nat Bailey Stadium (south 37th & Oak Park to
the racquet club)
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 18 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
1. Adanac Park – Designated Area
2. Balcalava Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 19 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
3. Burrard View Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 20 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
4. Elm Park – Designated Area
5. Fraser River Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 21 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
6. Garden Park – Designated Area
7. Granville Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 22 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
8. Harbour Green Park – Designated Area
9. Jericho Beach Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 23 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
10. John Hendry (Trout Lake) Park – Designated Area
11. Jonathan Rogers Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 24 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
12. Jones Park – Designated Area
13. Kitsilano Beach Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 25 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
14. Langara Park – Designated Area
15. Locarno Beach Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 26 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
16. Maple Grove Park – Designated Area
17. McBride Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 27 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
18. Memorial West Park – Designated Area
19. New Brighton Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 28 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
20. Pandora Park – Designated Area
21. Queen Elizabeth Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 29 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
22. Riverfront Park – Designated Area
23. Spanish Banks Beach Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 30 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
24. Stanley Park (Lumberman’s Arch) – Designated Area
25. Stanley Park (Southwest) – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 31 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
26. Sunrise Park – Designated Area
27. Tatlow Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 32 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
28. Vanier Park – Designated Area
29. Victoria Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 33 of 56SCHEDULE 2A
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [YEAR-ROUND]
30. Volunteer Park – Designated Area
31. Woodland Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 34 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
1. Beaconsfield Park – Designated Area
2. Braemar Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 35 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
3. Brewers Park – Designated Area
4. Clinton Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 36 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
5. Collingwood Park – Designated Area
6. Columbia Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 37 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
7. Falaise Park – Designated Area
8. Memorial South Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 38 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
9. Norquay Park – Designated Area
10. Oak Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 39 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
11. Quilchena Park – Designated Area
12. Robson Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 40 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
13. Ross Park – Designated Area
14. Rupert Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 41 of 56SCHEDULE 2B
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE
LIQUOR MAY BE CONSUMED [JULY & AUGUST]
15. Slocan Park – Designated Area
16. Winona Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 42 of 56SCHEDULE 2C
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE LIQUOR MAY
BE CONSUMED [JUNE 1, to SEPTEMBER 30, 2024]
1. Jericho Beach Park – Designated Area
2. John Henrdy (Trout Lake) Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 43 of 56SCHEDULE 2C
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE LIQUOR MAY
BE CONSUMED [JUNE 1, to SEPTEMBER 30, 2024]
3. Kitsilano Beach Park – Designated Area
4. Locarno Beach Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 44 of 56SCHEDULE 2C
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE LIQUOR MAY
BE CONSUMED [JUNE 1, to SEPTEMBER 30, 2024]
5. New Brighton Park – Designated Area
6. Spanish Banks Park – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 45 of 56SCHEDULE 2C
PARKS AND AREAS OF PARKS WHERE LIQUOR MAY
BE CONSUMED [JUNE 1, to SEPTEMBER 30, 2024]
7. Stanley Park (Second Beach) – Designated Area
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 46 of 56PARKS REMOVAL OF ANIMAL MANURE, DUNG,
REFUSE AND WASTE BY-LAW
A By-law for the control, regulation and protection of public parks and places within the
jurisdiction of the Board and of owners of dogs whose dogs may be thereon.
WHEREAS under and by virtue of the provisions of the Vancouver Charter, 1953 (which, with all
amendments thereto, is hereinafter referred to as the "Vancouver Charter"), the Board is authorized
to pass by-laws from time to time for the control, regulation, protection and government of the parks,
and of places within the jurisdiction of the Board, and of persons who may be therein, and, or, who
are the owners of animals who may be therein;
THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER
in open meeting, enacts as follows:
1. This By-law may be cited as the "Parks Removal of Animal Manure, Dung, Refuse and
Waste By-law".
2. In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions shall have
the meanings hereinafter assigned to them, that is to say:
(a) "Board" means and includes the Board of Parks and Recreation of the City of
Vancouver as constituted under the provisions of the Vancouver Charter;
(b) "Parks" means and includes public parks, playgrounds, driveways, roadways, paths,
trails, fire trails, boulevards, beaches, bathing beaches, swimming pools, community
recreation centres, golf courses, playfields, buildings and other public places under
the custody, care, management and jurisdiction of the Board;
(c) "Places" means buildings and improvements and includes community recreation
centres, rinks, indoor pools, arenas and refreshment buildings;
(d) "General Manager" means the General Manager of Parks and Recreation of the
Board as duly appointed by the Board or such other employee of the Board as may
be nominated by the General Manager.
3. An owner or any other person who has care, custody or control of a dog in any public park or
places within the jurisdiction of the Board, which dog defecates upon such park or places
aforementioned, shall remove forthwith any defecated matter deposited, provided however
that the provision of this section shall not apply to any person who is certified as being legally
blind, or any park or places specifically exempted by the Board.
4. The General Manager shall have the right to enforce all sections of this By-law herein.
5. Violation of By-law. Every person who offends against any of the provisions of this By- law,
or who suffers or permits any act or thing to be done in contravention or in violation of any of
the provisions of this By-law, or who does any act or thing which violates any of the provisions
of this By-law, shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against this By- law and shall be
liable to the penalties hereby imposed.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 47 of 566. Penalty Clause. Every person who commits an offence against this By-law is liable to a fine
and penalty not exceeding $500.00 and not less than $50.00 for each offence, or in the
alternative, to imprisonment for any period not exceeding two months.
7. It is the intention of the Board that each separate provision of this By-law shall be deemed
independent of all other provisions herein, and it is further the intention of the Board that if
any provision of this By-law be declared invalid, all other provisions thereof shall remain valid
and enforceable.
8. This By-law shall come into force and take effect on the date of the final passing hereof by
the Board of Parks and Recreation, and shall from such date have the force and effect as
provided under the provisions of the Vancouver Charter where not inconsistent with the
provisions of such Act, or any By-law of the City of Vancouver, or any law of the Province or
of Canada.
DONE AND PASSED by the Board of Parks and Recreation, this 3rd day of December 1979.
(Signed) “George Wainborn”
Chair, Board of Parks and Recreation
(Signed) “Vic Kondrosky”
General Manager, Board of Parks and Recreation
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 48 of 56A BY-LAW OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER
BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION TO
REGULATE SMOKING IN PARKS
WHEREAS it has been determined that second-hand smoke is a health hazard and nuisance for
people in parks in the City of Vancouver;
AND WHEREAS it is desirable for the care, promotion and protection of the health of people in parks
to regulate smoking in parks;
AND WHEREAS Council has authorized the City of Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation to
enact by- laws to regulate smoking in parks for the care, promotion and protection of the health of
people in parks;
THE CITY OF VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION, in public meeting, enacts as
follows:
SECTION 1
INTERPRETATION
Name of By-law
1.1 The name of this By-law, for citation, is the “Park Board Smoking Regulation By-law”.
Definitions
1.2 In this By-law:
“building” includes a structure;
“business” means a business, trade, profession, or other occupation for which a person must
obtain a license under the City of Vancouver License By-law;
“customer service area” means a partially enclosed or unenclosed area, including a balcony,
patio, yard or sidewalk, that is part of or connected to or associated with a business or use in
a building or premises that includes the service of food or alcoholic drinks to customers or
other persons for consumption on site;
“premises” means a portion of a building in respect of which a person has exclusive
possession; “responsible person” means a person who owns, controls, manages,
supervises, or operates:
(a) a business or other use which occupies all or substantially all of a building,
(b) a business or other use which occupies premises, or
(c) a customer service area,
and also means a person who drives a vehicle for hire;
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 49 of 56“smoke” or “smoking” means to inhale, exhale, burn, or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe,
hookah pipe, or other lighted smoking equipment that burns tobacco or other weed or
substance; and
“vehicle for hire” means a vehicle for which a person must obtain a vehicle for hire licence
under the City of Vancouver Vehicles for Hire By-law.
Schedules
1.3 The schedule attached to this By-law forms part of this By-law.
Severability
1.4 A decision by a court that any part of this By-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs that
part from this By-law, and is not to affect the balance of this By-law.
SECTION 2
APPLICATION
2. The By-law applies to all parks listed in Schedule A attached to this By-law.
SECTION 3
HEALTH REGULATIONS
3.1 A person must not smoke:
(a) in a park;
(b) on a seawall or beach in a park;
(c) in a building in a park, except in a caretaker’s residence;
(d) in a customer service area in a park;
(e) in a vehicle for hire in a park;
(f) on public transit in a park; or
(g) in an enclosed or partially enclosed shelter in a park where people wait to board a
vehicle for hire or public transit.
3.2 Except as permitted by section 3.1, a responsible person must not suffer or allow a person to
smoke in:
(a) a building in a park;
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 50 of 56(b) a customer service area in a park; or
(c) a vehicle for hire in a park.
SECTION 4 OFFENCES
AND PENALTIES
Offences under By-law
4.1 A person who:
(a) violates any provision of this By-law, or does any act or thing which violates any provision
of this By-law, or suffers or allows any other person to do any act or thing which violates
any provision of this By-law;
(b) neglects to do or refrains from doing anything required to be done by any provision of this
By-law; or
(c) fails to comply, or suffers or allows any other person to fail to comply, with an order,
direction, or notice given under any provision of this By-law;
is guilty of an offence against this By-law, and liable to the penalties imposed under this
Section 4.
Fine for offence
4.2 Every person who commits an offence against this By-law is punishable on conviction by a
fine of not less than $250.00 and not more than $2,000.00 for each offence, except that a
person who commits an offence under section 3.2(a), 3.2(b) or 3.2(c) of this By-law is liable to
a fine of not less than $500.00 for each offence.
SECTION 5
ENACTMENT
Force and effect
5. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on September 1st, 2010.
ENACTED by the Board of Parks and Recreation this 5th day of July, 2010.
(Signed) “Aaron Jasper”
Chair, Board of Parks and Recreation
(Signed) “Peter Kuran”
Acting General Manager, Board of Parks and Recreation
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 51 of 56SCHEDULE A – Park Sites
Aberdeen Park Deering Island Park Jones Park
Adanac Park Delamont Park Kaslo Park
Alexandra Park Devonian Harbour Park Kensington Park
Alice Townley Park Devonshire Park Kerrisdale Centennial Park
Almond Park Discovery Square Kerrisdale Park
Andy Livingstone Park Douglas Park Killarney Park
Angus Park Downtown Skateboard Plaza Kingscrest Park
Arbutus Greenway Park Dusty Greenwell Park Kinross Ravine Park
Arbutus Park Earles Park Kitsilano Beach Park
Arbutus Village Park Ebisu Park Langara Golf Course
Ash Park Eburne Park Langara Park
Balaclava Park Elm Park Locarno Park
Barclay Heritage Square Emery Barnes Park MacDonald Park
Bates Park English Bay Beach Park MacLean Park
Beaconsfield Park Everett Crowley Park Major Matthews Park
Bobolink Park Falaise Park Malkin Park
Braemar Park Foster Park Maple Grove Park
Brewers Park Fraser River Park Margaret Pigott Park
Burrard View Park Fraserview Golf Course Marina Square
Callister Park Fraserview Park Marpole Park
Cambie Park Garden Park May & Lorne Brown Park
Cambridge Park Gaston Park McBride Park
Captain Cook Park General Brock Park McCleery Golf Course
Cardero Park George Park McCleery Park
Cariboo Park George Wainborn Park McGill Park
Carleton Park Gladstone-Riverside Park McSpadden Park
Carnarvon Park Glen Park Melbourne Park
Carolina Park Gordon Park Memorial South Park
Cartier Park Grandview Park Memorial West Park
Cathedral Square Granville Loop Park Moberley Park
Cedar Cottage Park Grays Park Montgomery Park
Chaldecott Park Grimmett Park Morton Park
Champlain Heights Park Guelph Park Mosaic Creek Park
Charles Park Hadden Park Mount Pleasant Park
Charleson Park Harbour Green Park Musqueam Park
China Creek North Park Hastings Community Park Nanaimo Park
China Creek South Park Heather Park Nelson Park
Choklit Park Helmcken Park New Brighton Park
Clark Park Clinton Park Hillcrest Park (incl. Nat Norquay Park
Coal Harbour Park Bailey) Oak Meadows Park
Collingwood Park Hinge Park Oak Park
Columbia Park Humm Park Oppenheimer Park
Connaught Park Jean Beaty Park Oxford Park
Coopers’ Park Jericho Beach Park Pandora Park
CRAB Park @ Portside John Hendry (Trout Lake) Pigeon Park (Pioneer Place)
Creekside Park Park Point Grey Road Waterfront
David Lam Park Johnathan Rogers Park Park
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 52 of 56Portal Park Salsbury Park Thunderbird Park
Price Park Seaforth Peace Park Tisdall Park
Prince Edward Park Shannon Park Trafalgar Park
Prince of Wales Park Shaughnessy Park Trillium Park
Puget Mini-park Slocan Park Valdez Park
Quadra West Park Spanish Bank Beach Park VanDusen Botanical Gardens
Queen Elizabeth Park Sparwood Park Vanier Park
Quesnel Mini-park Sparwood Park Extension Victoria Park
Quilchena Park Stanley Park Victory Square
Ravine Park Strathcona Linear Park Volunteer Park
Renfrew Community Park Strathcona Park W.C. Shelley Park
Renfrew Ravine Park Sun Yat-Sen Garden Wendy Poole Park
Riley Park Sunnyside Park West End Mini-parks (9 sites)
Riverfront Park Sunrise Park West Point Grey Park
Riverview Park Sunset Beach Park Westmount Park
Robson Park Sunset Park William Mackie Park
Rosemary Brown Park Sutcliffe Park Willow Park
Rosemont Park Tatlow Park Winona Park
Ross Park Teaswamp Park Woodland Park
Roundhouse Park Tecumseh Park Yaletown Park
Rupert Park Templeton Park
Sahalli Park Thornton Park
Also:
Un-named Park at Blenheim Street and West 19th Avenue
Un-named Park at Shaughnessy Street and Fraser River
Un-named Park at Stephens Street and Point Grey Road
Un-named Park at Trafalgar Street and West 31st Avenue
Un-named Park at Trinity Street and Wall Street
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 53 of 56A BY-LAW OF THE CITY OF VANCOUVER
BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
TO DESIGNATE ENFORCEMENT OF CERTAIN BY-LAW OFFENCES BY TICKET
THE CITY OF VANCOUVER BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION, in public meeting, enacts as
follows:
SECTION 1
INTERPRETATION
Name of By-law
1.1 The name of this By-law, for citation, is the “Park Board Ticket Offences By-law”.
Definitions
1.2 In this By-law:
“Park Ranger” means any individual appointed by the Park Board or by the General Manager
of Parks and Recreation to carry out various duties including by-law enforcement; and
“Police Officer” means a peace officer or constable as provided under the Police Act, and
employed by the Vancouver Police Board.
Severability
1.3 A decision by a court that any part of this By-law is illegal, void, or unenforceable severs that
part from this By-law, and is not to affect the balance of this By-law.
SECTION 2
REGULATION OF TICKET OFFENCES
Designation of by-laws
2.1 For the purpose of section 482.1(1)(a) of the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board designates
the by-laws named in the title to Table 1 and Table 2 which follows section 2.6.
Designation of by-law enforcement officers
2.2 For the purpose of section 482.1(1)(b) of the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board designates
the persons listed in Column 1 of Table 1 and Table 2 as by-law enforcement officers.
Authorization of the use of any word or expression on a ticket
2.3 For the purpose of section 482.1(1)(c) of the Vancouver Charter, the Park Board designates
the words or expressions listed in Column 2 of Table 1 and Table 2 as words or expressions to
describe the offences under the by-law provisions listed in Column 3 opposite each such word
or expression in Column 2.
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 54 of 56Ticket offence fines
2.4 The Park Board sets the fine for contravention of each by-law provision in the amount listed
in Column 4 of Table 1 and Table 2 opposite each such provision in Column 3.
Enforcement of ticket offences
2.5 A by-law enforcement officer referred to in Column 1 Table 1 and Table 2 may lay an
information by means of a ticket for contravention of a by-law provision listed in Column 3 of
that table.
Existing fines
2.6 Despite anything to the contrary in the Parks Control By-law, the fine set out in that by-law for
contravention of a by-law provision listed in Column 3 of Table 1 and Table 2 does not apply
if a by-law enforcement officer lays an information by means of a ticket under this By-law.
TABLE 1 - Park Board Smoking Regulation By-law
Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4
Park Ranger Smoking in a park Section 3.1(a) $250.00
Police Officer Smoking on a seawall or Section 3.1(b) $250.00
beach in a park
Smoking in a building in a Section 3.1(c) $250.00
park
Smoking in a customer Section 3.1(d) $250.00
service area in a park
Smoking in a vehicle for Section 3.1(e) $250.00
hire in a park
Smoking on public transit Section 3.1(f) $250.00
in a park
Smoking in a transit Section 3.1(g) $250.00
shelter in a park
Allowing a person to Section 3.2(a) $500.00
smoke in a building
in a park
Allowing a person to Section 3.2(b) $500.00
smoke in a customer
service area in a park
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 55 of 56Allowing a person to Section 3.2(c) $500.00
smoke in a vehicle for
hire in a park
TABLE 2 – Parks Control By-law
Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4
Park Ranger Feed wildlife Section 9A(a) $500.00
Police Officer Leave attractant Section 9A(b) $500.00
SECTION 3
ENACTMENT
Force and effect
3. This By-law is to come into force and take effect on September 1, 2010.
th
ENACTED by the Board of Parks and Recreation this 5 day of July, 2010.
(Signed) “Aaron Jasper”
Chair, Board of Parks and Recreation
(Signed) “Peter Kuran”
Acting General Manager, Board of Parks and Recreation
*****
Amendments to the Park Board Ticket Offences By-law
re: feeding wildlife in parks – October 21, 2021
Vancouver Board of Parks and Recreation – Park By-laws (consolidated) 56 of 56